grammar_point: か否か
jlpt: N1
meaning: Whether or not
meaning_warning: や否や is used to express "as soon as"
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 否'no' is an interjection in Japanese that is primarily paired with theadverbial particleか 'or'
  when stating 'whether or not (A)'. The literal meaning is just '(A) or no'. This is a very formal expression
  that will mainly be seen in writing.か否かmay appear after almost any word in theirstandard forms.This
  structure is often paired with words like べき 'ought to', を問わず 'without questioning',にかかわらず'regardless
  of', and will be used to make determinations about the suitability of something based on a specific
  situation.
examples:
  - japanese: この授業を楽しむか否かは自分次第だ。
    english: Whether you enjoy this class or not is up to you.
  - japanese: 怖いか否かは別として、この映画はとても面白かった。
    english: Putting aside whether this movie was scary or not, it was really enjoyable.
  - japanese: あの人が貧乏であるか否かは私たちには関係のないことです。
    english: Whether that person is poor or not is none of our business.
  - japanese: あの人がこの子の父親か否か、DNA検査をしなくてはわからない。
    english: We will never know if that man is the father of this child or not without a DNA test.
  - japanese: 小説、語り手：「スウォン王は武力で反乱を鎮圧すべきか否か、について迷っていた。」
    english: 'A novel, narrator: ''King Su-won was hesitant about whether or not he should put the rebellion
      down by force.'''
  - japanese: 記事のタイトル：「プロゲーマーは真のスポーツ選手か否か。eスポーツ業界が直面するビザの問題」
    english: 'Article title: ''Are pro gamers real athletes or not? The visa problem that eSports faces.''
      (whether or not)'
  - japanese: サイバーセキュリティ会社のサイト：「怪しいか否かの判断に迷うメールを受け取った場合は、どうぞそれを開かずにLain＠cyberland.xyzまでご連絡をお願いします。」
    english: 'Cybersecurity company website: ''In the event that you receive an email in which you are
      unable to determine whether or not it is suspicious, do not open it and please contact us at Lain@cyberland.xyz.'''
  - japanese: サイト、クッキーファイルについて：「利用者はそのクッキーを受け入れるか否かを決めることができますし、また、全部のクッキーを削除することもできます。」
    english: 'Website, about cookie files: ''Users can decide whether or not they accept cookies. Users
      are also able to delete all accepted cookies anytime.'''
  - japanese: イベントのサイト「参加資格：登録ユーザーであるか否かを問わず、どなたでもご参加可能」
    english: 'Event website: ''Entry qualifications: Regardless of whether you are a registered user or
      not, anyone can participate.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/か否か
false_friends:
  - term: かどうか
    meaning: Whether or not, If...or not
    kind: synonym
