grammar_point: ともなると・にもなると
jlpt: N1
meaning: When, If, Once, As
meaning_warning: 〜なったら is also used. Often in casual speech.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: となるとis a strong expression in Japanese that focuses on highlighting that once some relatively
  high threshold is reached, (B) will occur. Whileとなるとmay be seen in several different forms, the base
  structure is a combination of the particle と, the う-Verb なる 'to become', and the particle と repeated
  in its use of highlighting a certain outcome. Standard translations are 'once (A), (B)', and 'when (A),
  (B)'. A more literal translation can be thought of as 'once (A) happens, it is sure to follow that (B)'.The
  other forms thatとなるとmay be seen in areともなると,となれば, andともなれば. The primary difference being that も adds
  slight emphasis. While ば and と do have slightly different nuances by default, in terms of this specific
  grammar point, they are used completely interchangeably.となるとmay be seen following nouns, or verbs in
  any of theirstandard form.も may also be used following the subject ofともなるとsentences, and simply places
  emphasis on that subject.Fun FactThe emphasis that is seen in this grammar pattern is partly due to
  the function of the first と, and is one of the reasons that になると will not be used to convey a similar
  meaning. に and と are regularly used in this way in Japanese, with と almost always indicating that the
  outcome of something is unavoidable, cannot be controlled, is as to be expected. に merely focuses on
  the transition from (A) to (B).
examples:
  - japanese: あなたも行くともなると、席が足りないので、車３台ではなく４台で行くことにしましょう。
    english: If you are also coming, there will not be enough seats, so let's take 4 cars instead of 3.
  - japanese: 会社のウェブページを作成するともなれば、優秀なプログラマーが必要になるだろう。
    english: We would probably need good programmers, once we start working on the company website.
  - japanese: ゴールデンウィークともなると、遊園地などは混む。
    english: Amusement parks get crowded once Goldenweek starts.
  - japanese: 社会人ともなれば、色々な社会的ルールを守らなければいけなくなる。
    english: Once you become a member of society, there are various societal rules that you need to start
      following.
  - japanese: どんなつまらない観光地も、週末ともなると観光客で賑わう。
    english: When the weekend starts, even the most boring tourist attractions are crowded.
  - japanese: ５０代となると体が思うように動かなくなる。
    english: Once you turn 50, your body stops working like how you want it to. (Unavoidable due to age)
  - japanese: ５０代になると体が思うように動かなくなる。
    english: Once you turn 50, your body stops working like how you want it to. (Simply stating that once
      you turn 50, your body won't be the same as it was before)
  - japanese: ここは普通の漁村だが、夏休みともなると大勢の客が来て、賑やかになります。
    english: This is an ordinary fishing village, but when the summer vacation starts, a large number
      of visitors come and it becomes lively.
  - japanese: 田中さんは普通のサラリーマンだが、危なくて後が無い状況ともなると獅子のように他の人を守る。
    english: Tanaka-san is just an ordinary office worker, but when the situation is dangerous and there
      is no way out, he will protect others like a lion.
  - japanese: 大人ともなると、幼馴染との友情は弱くなりつつあるだろう。
    english: Once you become an adult, the bond with childhood friends gets weaker and weaker.
  - japanese: チームリーダーに就任するともなると、自分の仕事に限らずチームメンバーの仕事に責任があるだろう。
    english: Once you become a team leader, you will be responsible not only for your own but also for
      the work of team members.
  - japanese: 普段は貪欲ではない人でも、莫大な金額ともなると貪欲になるかもしれない。
    english: Even people who are generally not greedy might become greedy when it comes to huge amounts
      of money.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ともなると-にもなると
false_friends:
  - term: につれて
    meaning: As…then, In proportion to, (Along) with
    kind: synonym
