grammar_point: まで
jlpt: N4
meaning: Is not as…as, Isn't... like..., Not to the extent of...
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Theadverbial particleまでis used in the same way as many other adverbial particles, in that it
  is highlighting that the statement that comes after it as important in some way. However, unlike our
  first look atまで, which discussed its use as 'until', this use ofまでhas the nuance of 'even', or 'to the
  extent'. It can be used after verbs or nouns.Although usingまでas 'even' may seem different to 'until',
  they are essentially the same thing in Japanese. This is becauseまでalways means '(A)まで, (B)', where (A)
  is the 'limitation/extent', and (B) is the 'noteworthy factor'. This 'noteworthy factor' will usually
  be a descriptive word/phrase, such as a verb, adjective, or explanation.Fun FactTheもparticle is sometimes
  grouped together withまで, when the meaning is 'even'. This just adds emphasis to the fact that the event
  is somewhat surprising, or that the result is satisfying.
examples:
  - japanese: 私はお金を払ってまで旅行には行きたくない。
    english: I would not go to the extent of paying money to go traveling.
  - japanese: お腹が空きすぎて、大嫌いなバナナまで食べた。
    english: Because I was so hungry, I even ate a banana, which I hate.
  - japanese: バイクまで持っているの？
    english: You even have a bike?
  - japanese: 一回笑ったら、面白くない話までおかしくなる。
    english: Once you start laughing, even uninteresting topics become funny.
  - japanese: 私はスポーツカーまでも持っています。
    english: I even have a sports car.
  - japanese: 夜中まで日本語の文法を勉強している。
    english: I'm studying Japanese grammar even in the middle of the night. (to the extent・until)
  - japanese: お腹が空いているとき、熊は果実まで食べる。
    english: Bears will even go as far as to eat berries when they are hungry. (to the extent・until)
  - japanese: お金を払ってまでテストを受けたくない。
    english: I don't want to go to the extent of paying money to take the test.(even...to the extent of・until)
  - japanese: 頭まで痛くなってきた。
    english: Even my head is starting to hurt. (to the extent・until)
  - japanese: 君たちがいたから、ここまで来られた。
    english: Because you guys were here, we were able to come as far as this point. (to this extent・until)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/まで
false_friends:
  - term: さえ
    meaning: Even
    kind: synonym
  - term: Noun + まで
    meaning: Until, Till,  To (but no further than)
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb + まで
    meaning: Until (something) happens
    kind: synonym
  - term: ほど
    meaning: The more, About, To the extent that, So much… that
    kind: synonym
  - term: くらい ②
    meaning: To the extent that, So…that, About the only thing that...
    kind: synonym
  - term: ほど～ない
    meaning: Is not as…as, Isn't... like..., Not to the extent of...
    kind: synonym
