grammar_point: すでに
jlpt: N3
meaning: Already, Too late
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: As a formal alternative to もう, theadverb既に is used in Japanese as 'already'. Usually,既に will
  come at the beginning of a phrase that it is clarifying as being 'already (A)'.すでにhas several nuances
  in Japanese beyond just 'already', let's take a look at a few of these possibilities:のこらず - Nothing
  remaining.あまねく - All around.ことごとく - Altogether.もはや - Already.まぎれもなく - Beyond doubt.These may all seem
  quite different, but together they show the full meaning of既に very clearly. That meaning is 'to be completely
  unchanging'. Let's take a look at howすでにcan be used with each of these nuances.CautionDue to既に implying
  something absolutely cannot be changed, it is often used to imply that something is 'too late', and
  that nothing else can be done about it.
examples:
  - japanese: お湯はすでにわいている。
    english: The hot water is already boiled.
  - japanese: すでにお支払い済みです。
    english: It has already been paid for.
  - japanese: もうすでにチケットは売り切れです。
    english: The tickets are already sold out. (Nothing remains)
  - japanese: 彼はすでに国民から名前を忘れられている。
    english: His name has already been forgotten by the citizens. (Universal opinion)
  - japanese: 彼はすでにみんなと仲良くなっていた。
    english: He was already becoming friends with absolutely everyone. (Altogether)
  - japanese: さっき食べたばかりなのに、もうすでにお腹が空いてきた。
    english: I just ate earlier, but I am already starting to get hungry.
  - japanese: これはすでに決まった事なので、もう私達じゃ何もできません。
    english: It is beyond doubt that this has been decided, so we can't do anything about it. (Beyond
      doubt)
  - japanese: 電車はすでに出発しました。
    english: The train has left already. (And there is nothing we can do about it)
  - japanese: 既に知っているかもしれませんが、確認のためにもう一度聞いてください。
    english: You may already know, but please listen once more just to be sure.
  - japanese: 一番乗りだと思ったら、既に先客がいた。
    english: I thought I was the first to arrive, but there was already someone there before me.
  - japanese: 時既に遅し。
    english: You are already too late.
  - japanese: 電話料金は既に払い終えました。
    english: I have already paid the telephone bill.
  - japanese: 焼きたてのパンを買おうとした時には既に売り切れでした。
    english: The freshly baked bread was already sold out when I was about to buy it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/すでに
false_friends:
  - term: もう
    meaning: Already, Anymore
    kind: synonym
