grammar_point: にかかわらず
jlpt: N2
meaning: Regardless of, Whether or, No matter, With or without
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: In order to convey 'regardless of (A)', 'no matter if (A)', or 'with or without (A)', the expressionに関わらずwill
  often be used. This is a combination of に, the う-Verb関わる 'to be affected', 'to be influenced', and theliterary
  auxiliary verbず, which connects with verbs in the same way, and carries the same meaning as ない.This
  structure may be seen with verbs or adjectives in either their dictionary or negative forms, or with
  nouns in their dictionary form. Frequently the same word is repeated in both the positive and the negative,
  or grouped withかどうかin order to strengthen the 'whether (A) or not (A)' nuance.As the literal meaning
  of this structure is 'without being influenced by (A), (B)', or 'without being affected by (A), (B)',
  the primary nuance is on the fact that (B) is something that exists or will happen without consideration
  for (A). Due to this,に関わらずmay also be used to show that 'any type of (A) will result in the same (B)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 雨が降るか降らないかに関わらず、運動会は開催されます。
    english: The sports day will be held, regardless of whether it rains or not.
  - japanese: このビーチは天気がいいかどうかに関わらず、毎日サーファーたちで賑わっています。
    english: This beach is crowded with surfers regardless of the weather.
  - japanese: 上手い下手に関わらず、何事も一生懸命やるのが大切だ。
    english: Regardless of if you are good or bad, it is important to do your best at everything you do.
  - japanese: 彼は性別や国籍に関わらず、誰とでも友達になれる。
    english: Regardless of gender or nationality, he is able to become friends with anyone.
  - japanese: このゲームは年齢に関わらず、誰でも楽しめます！
    english: Regardless of age, anyone can enjoy this game!
  - japanese: お天気に関わらず雨天でも、例年通り、マンション周辺の草取りを行います。
    english: Regardless of the weather, even if it's rainy, the annual apartment building weeding event
      will take place.
  - japanese: 性別や年齢に関わらず、人は毎日健康の為に散歩をします。
    english: Regardless of gender or age, people walk for their health every day.
  - japanese: 正義感が強いかどうかに関わらず、責任をもって活動できる限り、ボランティアになることができる！
    english: Regardless of having a strong sense of justice or not, as long as one can perform the activities
      responsibly, then they can become a volunteer.
  - japanese: 広告：「会員の有無に関わらずこのジムの開店記念日のため、今週のみ入場無料の行事を実施します！」
    english: 'Advertisement: ''Regardless if you are a member or not, limited to this week only, in celebration
      of our one-year anniversary, we are holding a free admission event!'''
  - japanese: 商品の使用前使用後にかかわらず、会社方針により返品は受け入れられません。
    english: Regardless of whether you have used the product or not, according to the company policy,
      we do not accept refunds.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にかかわらず
false_friends:
  - term: を問わず
    meaning: Regardless of, Whether or not, No matter, With or without
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～ても～なくても
    meaning: Whether ~ or not
    kind: synonym
  - term: どうしても
    meaning: Regardless of, No matter what
    kind: synonym
  - term: にもかかわらず
    meaning: Despite, In spite of, Regardless, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
