grammar_point: その上
jlpt: N2
meaning: Besides, In addition, Furthermore
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: その上is a formal expression used in Japanese to indicate that something is 'besides', 'in addition
  to', or 'furthermore' in relation to the previous statement. It primarily comes at the beginning of
  sentences before reflecting back on and adding new information in regard to what has already been said.The
  literal meaning can be thought of as 'on top of that (B)', where 'that' is the information that has
  already been mentioned.Despite often being used in formal settings, it is not uncommon to hear this
  phrase used in daily speech, due to its simplicity in highlighting something being 'in addition'.
examples:
  - japanese: 高橋さんはとても頭がいい。その上、人柄もいいので会社での評判がいいです。
    english: Takahashi-san is very smart. Furthermore, he has a very good personality so he has a very
      good reputation in the company.
  - japanese: 今住んでいる家はものすごく小さい。その上隣に住んでいる住人が一日中うるさいので、来月引っ越そうと思う。
    english: The house I live in now is extremely small. In addition, the people who live next door are
      noisy all day long, so I'm thinking of moving out next month.
  - japanese: 今日は学校で先生に怒られた。その上家に帰ったら親に怒られたのであまりいい一日ではなかった。
    english: I was scolded by my teacher at school today. In addition, I was scolded by my parents when
      I came home, so it was not a very good day today.
  - japanese: 昨日は夜遅くまで編み物をしてしまった。その上、朝早くから電話で起こされたのでとても眠いです。
    english: I stayed up late last night knitting. Furthermore, I was woken up early by a phone call so
      I am really tired.
  - japanese: 今日はとても寒かった。その上、雨まで降ってきたので屋外のアルバイトは大変だった。
    english: It was very cold today. In addition, it decided to rain so my outdoor part time job was really
      rough.
  - japanese: 美味しいお料理をごちそうになってしまって。その上、お土産までいただいて。本当に、ありがとうございます。
    english: I was treated to some great food. Furthermore, I was also given a souvenir. Thank you so
      much!
  - japanese: 顔が青白い。その上、唇は紫だ。大丈夫だろうか？
    english: His face is pale. Furthermore, his lips are purple. Is he okay, I wonder?
  - japanese: 彼は勇ましい。その上優しいのだから、言うことない。
    english: He is brave. In addition, he is kind, so there isn't anything to say.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/その上
false_friends:
  - term: おまけに
    meaning: In addition, On top of that, What is more, To make matters worse
    kind: synonym
  - term: なお②
    meaning: In addition, Incidentally, Furthermore, Moreover
    kind: synonym
  - term: それに
    meaning: And, Besides, Moreover, In addition
    kind: synonym
  - term: しかも
    meaning: Moreover, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: 更に
    meaning: Even more or further, Again, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上に
    meaning: As well, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
