grammar_point: ごとに
jlpt: N4
meaning: Each, Every
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ごとにis an combination of the nounごと, and the particleに. Together, they are used adverbially to
  express that something happens 'every (A)', or 'at intervals of (A)'.ごとにmay be used after any verb (usually
  in non-past form), or noun.Althoughごとにmay be used after verbs, the most common use is with nouns, or
  phrases that finish with nouns.Cautionごと is the訓読み (Japanese reading) of the kanji毎, which means 'every'.
  This fact will be important when trying to remember the difference betweenごとにandおきに, a similar grammar
  point which can also mean 'every', but focuses more on 'interval' or 'gap' of a specific time or distance.
  Due toおきにfocusing on the space between 'each (A)', there are sentences whereおきにandごとにwill have different
  meanings.Here, we can see thatごとにwill mean 'every week', whileおきにwill mean 'every second week', due
  to there being a 'one week interval' whenおきにis used. To make things easier, these two expressions can
  be remembered in the following way.(A)ごとに= During every (A), (B).(A)おきに= After every space of (A), (B).Fun
  FactMany native speakers make mistakes with the difference betweenおきにandごとに, so there are quite a large
  number of people (especially in the younger generation) that will consider them completely interchangeable.
examples:
  - japanese: 失敗をする経験は無駄ではありません。失敗をするごとに上達します。
    english: Failing is not a pointless experience. Every time you fail, you improve.
  - japanese: 私は3時間ごとにお菓子を食べます。
    english: I eat snacks every 3 hours.
  - japanese: 私は一週間ごとに実家に帰ります。
    english: I go to my parents' home every week. (Every single one)
  - japanese: 私は一週間おきに実家に帰ります。
    english: I go to my parents' home every other week. (With 'spaces' or 'gaps' of 1 week)
  - japanese: 彼女は運転中、赤信号毎に、携帯を見る。
    english: She looks at her phone at every red light while driving.
  - japanese: あのチームは、試合をする毎に強くなっている。
    english: That team is getting stronger with every match.
  - japanese: 夏毎にアメリカに帰ります。
    english: Every summer I go back to America.
  - japanese: 生徒毎に紙を渡した。
    english: I gave a paper to every student. (Each)
  - japanese: 二日毎に友達とサッカーをする。
    english: I play soccer with my friend every two days. (at two day intervals)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ごとに
false_friends:
  - term: に (Frequency)
    meaning: Times (In each time period), Every, Frequency of
    kind: synonym
  - term: まい～のように
    meaning: Almost every ~, Nearly every ~, On a ~ basis
    kind: synonym
  - term: たびに
    meaning: Each time, Every time, Whenever
    kind: synonym
  - term: おきに
    meaning: Repeated at intervals, Every other, Every, At intervals of
    kind: synonym
  - term: につけ
    meaning: Whenever, Every time something happens
    kind: synonym
