grammar_point: にすぎない
jlpt: N2
meaning: No more than, Just, Merely
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: にすぎないis a common structure in Japanese used for indicating that something is 'no more than (A)',
  or 'merely (A)'. This expression is constructed from に, and the negated form of the る-Verb過ぎる, meaning
  'to exceed', or 'to be more than'. Due to this, the literal translation of 'to not be more than (A)'
  reflects the English interpretations closely.にすぎないis slightly formal, but is heard fairly often in day-to-day
  speech as well. This grammar pattern may be used after verbs in any of their standard forms, い-Adjectives,
  な-Adjectives, or nouns.にすぎないis often seen paired with structures that will emphasize the phrase even
  further, such as ただ 'merely' or だけ 'just'. In the case of だけ, it will come between the target word and
  にすぎない. Also, standard conjugation rules will need to be remembered, such as adding な after a な-Adjective
  before だけ.Fun-fact -にすぎないmay occasionally appear in set phrases, such as氷山の一角にすぎない, which means 'to
  merely be the tip of the iceberg'.
examples:
  - japanese: 私はお金が欲しかったから、あなたを助けたにすぎない。
    english: I helped you just because I wanted money.
  - japanese: どんだけ勉強していても、ちゃんと集中して勉強をしないと時間を無駄にしているにすぎない。
    english: No matter how much you study, if you don't focus on your studies properly, you are just wasting
      your time.
  - japanese: あの建物は古いだけにすぎない。
    english: That building is nothing more than old.
  - japanese: 田中さんはハンサムなだけにすぎない。
    english: Tanaka-san is nothing more than handsome.
  - japanese: 藤田さん、君は子供にすぎない。
    english: Fujita-san, you are nothing more than a child.
  - japanese: この納豆はただくさいだけにすぎない。
    english: This natto just smells.
  - japanese: 田舎はただ不便なだけにすぎない。
    english: The countryside is nothing more than inconvenient.
  - japanese: これは氷山の一角にすぎないとおもう...
    english: I think that this is just the tip of the iceberg…
  - japanese: 君は学生にすぎない。
    english: You are nothing more than a student.
  - japanese: 行動しなかったら、口だけにすぎない。
    english: If you don't act, then that is nothing more than talk.
  - japanese: 運が悪いだけにすぎない。
    english: It is just bad luck. (nothing more than)
  - japanese: 北枕がよくないというのは、迷信にすぎない。
    english: It is said that laying down with one's head to the north is bad for you. That is no more
      than superstition.
  - japanese: その線は目安にすぎません。多少越えても大丈夫です。
    english: That line is no more than an estimate. It is okay to go a little over it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にすぎない
false_friends:
  - term: でしかない
    meaning: Merely, Nothing but, No more than
    kind: synonym
  - term: にほかならない
    meaning: Nothing but, None other than, Simply
    kind: synonym
