grammar_point: たり～たりする
jlpt: N5
meaning: Things like ~ and ~
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Conjunctive Particle
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 助詞
  単語の種類: 接続助詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In Japanese, たり is a 'conjunction particle' that is used in exactly the same way as て . However,
  instead of having the nuance of 'then', or 'and', it has the nuance of 'and things like'. Basically,
  it is used for listing sequences of events that do not happen in a specific order.The last たり in any
  sequence will almost always be followed by する (or した for past tense).From these examples we can see
  that たり will sometimes be said as だり . This happens with the same verbs that usually use だ for past
  tense (like 読 んだ), or で for the て form ( like 泳 いで). This will not change the meaning at all, and is
  only to help make the words easier to say.To summarize, the difference between て form, and たり is as
  follows.Events in order - I did (A) て , (B) て , (C) て , (D) た.Events in no specific order - I did (D)
  たり , (B) たり , (A) たり , (C) たり した .たり is frequently used when there is only one verb in the sentence.
  This just means that the speaker did 'things like (A)', without specifically listing anything else.CautionIn
  cases where a する verb is the last verb in a particular sequence, たり will often be omitted.
examples:
  - japanese: 勉強をしたり、おやつを食べたり、掃除もします。
    english: I do things like study, eat snacks, and also clean. (In no specific order)
  - japanese: 家でゲームをしたり、食べたりした。
    english: At home, I did things like play video games and eat.
  - japanese: 音楽を聞いたり、本を読んだりしました。
    english: I did things like listen to music and read books.
  - japanese: 掃除をしたり、洗濯をしたりした。
    english: I did things like cleaning and doing the laundry.
  - japanese: 雨が降ったり、止んだりするね。
    english: It keeps doing things like raining and stopping, doesn't it.
  - japanese: 今日は、勉強したり、練習したりする。
    english: Today I will do things like study and practice.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たり-たりする
false_friends:
  - term: やら～やら
    meaning: Whether or, Things like, And … so on
    kind: synonym
  - term: や
    meaning: Things like, And the like
    kind: synonym
  - term: とか～とか
    meaning: Among other things, For example, Such as
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～なり～なり
    meaning: Or, Either or
    kind: synonym
