grammar_point: 次第
jlpt: N3
meaning: As soon as
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 敬語
writeup: 次第is anounthat is often translated in different ways, depending on what type of word it follows.
  In this lesson, we will look at the meaning associated with theconjunctive formof standard verbs, and
  the stem ofするverbs. Although it is a noun,次第may also be classified simply as asuffixin many cases.Basically,次第means
  'next in sequence after (A)', and is often translated to 'as soon as (A)'.Fun FactOne of the most important
  things to keep in mind with次第, is that the literal meaning in almost every situation is 'determining
  sequence'. This is unlike any standard phrase in English, but simply expresses that (A) is what will
  govern (B). Let's look at how this translates with different word types.Verb次第- Verb determines the
  sequence of (B). Since a verb is not capable of making a choice, (A) simply 'happening' will result
  in (B).Living noun次第- Noun determines the sequence of (B). Since living things can make choices, (B)
  will depend on (A).Inanimate/abstract noun次第- Noun determines the sequence of (B). Since inanimate/abstract
  things cannot make choices, (A) will determine (B)'s course of action. (B) will usually involve some
  kind of decision.
examples:
  - japanese: 用意が出来次第、僕に声をかけてください。
    english: As soon as you get ready, please let me know.
  - japanese: ミュージカルが終わり次第、連絡をください。
    english: Please call me as soon as the musical ends.
  - japanese: 待ち合わせ場所に到着し次第、私に連絡してください。
    english: Please give me a call as soon as you arrive at the meet up spot.
  - japanese: 計画が決まり次第、あなたに報告します。
    english: I will notify you as soon as we decide on the plan.
  - japanese: 行くか行かないかは君次第だよ。
    english: Whether you go or not will depend on you.
  - japanese: 6人も乗れるかは車のサイズ次第だね。
    english: Whether or not 6 people can fit will depend on the size of the car.
  - japanese: 映画が終わり次第、連絡して。迎えに行くからね。
    english: Let me know as soon as the movie is over because I'll go pick you up.
  - japanese: 宿題の答えが分かり次第、教えてください。
    english: Please tell (teach) me the homework answers as soon as you know them.
  - japanese: 雨が止み次第、大会は再開される。
    english: The rally will resume as soon as the rain stops.
  - japanese: 平日、妻の仕事が終わり次第、迎えに行ってあげている。
    english: On weekdays, as soon as my wife finishes work, I pick her up.
  - japanese: 準備が出来次第出発しますよ。
    english: We will depart as soon as you are ready.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/次第
false_friends:
  - term: なり
    meaning: As soon as, The moment, When
    kind: synonym
  - term: 直ちに
    meaning: At once, Immediately, As soon as
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとたんに
    meaning: The instant or moment, As soon as, Just as
    kind: synonym
  - term: にかかわる
    meaning: To relate to, To have to do with, Concerning, Depends on
    kind: synonym
  - term: によって・による
    meaning: By means of, According to, Depending on, Because of, Due to
    kind: synonym
  - term: 次第だ・次第で
    meaning: Depending on, So
    kind: synonym
