grammar_point: せめて
jlpt: N2
meaning: At least
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Coming from the verb責める, meaning to have the 'onus to do (A)',せめてis anadverbthat indicates that
  doing (A) is the minimum expected in order to achieve some desired outcome. It is often translated simply
  as 'at least' in English.せめてusually alters the meaning of an entire phrase, and will appear at the beginning
  of sentences.Stemming from責める, this structure usually implies that there is some sort of onus or responsibility
  to do (A), rather than (A) simply being a minimum amount. Due to this, it is often used with grammar
  points that express desire or opinions such as たい, ほしい, てほしい, べき, and others.
examples:
  - japanese: ご飯は残しても良いから、せめて刺身だけは全部たべて。
    english: You can leave the rice, but at least finish the sashimi please.
  - japanese: せめて国語の宿題はやっておきなさい。
    english: At least finish your Japanese homework in advance.
  - japanese: せめてこの曲だけでも弾けるようになりたい。
    english: I want to be able to play this song, at least.
  - japanese: えっ... たったの5千円だけ？せめて1万は欲しいよ。
    english: What…only five-thousand yen? I want at least ten-thousand yen.
  - japanese: 別に毎日洗濯をしろっては言わないけど、せめて晩御飯だけは毎日作ってほしい。
    english: I'm not telling you to do laundry everyday, but I want you to at least make dinner every
      night.
  - japanese: 1日にせめて1リットルの水を飲むべきだ。
    english: You should drink at least 1 liter of water a day.
  - japanese: 彼女はせめてドアくらい閉めて行けばいいのに…
    english: She could have at least closed the door...
  - japanese: 親：「せめておかずだけ食べて。」
    english: 'Mother: ''At least eat your sides.'' (side dish)'
  - japanese: マラソンで勝つのは無理だけど、せめて、完走したい...
    english: I realize it is not possible to win the marathon, but I want to finish it at least...
  - japanese: ライトノベルの主人公：「君は居候だから、せめて自分の料理は自分でするべきだよ。」
    english: 'The protagonist of a light novel: ''You are a freeloader, so at least you should cook your
      own food!'''
  - japanese: かつてのようなパワーに達せないけど、せめて半分に達せればいいんだけど。
    english: I cannot reach the level of power I had before, but I hope I can attain at least half of
      it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/せめて
false_friends: []
