grammar_point: ただ〜のみ
jlpt: N1
meaning: Nothing but, Should, Have to, Only, All that remains,
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: ただ～のみis an expression that is commonly interpreted as ‘(A) is all that is required’, or ‘(A)
  is all that remains’. It is a combination of theneologismただ ‘merely’, and theadverbial particleのみ ‘just’
  or ‘only’. のみ itself has the same meanings and uses as both だけ and ばかり, but is slightly more formal.Frequently,
  (A) will be a verb that indicates movement, continuation, or hope. This highlights that one has already
  done everything that is possible, and all that is left to do is hope for a good result, or that one
  is already doing all that is necessary, and all that remains is to continue.When する-Verbs are used with
  this expression, occasionally it will be replaced by ある. This puts more focus on the existence of the
  action, rather than the action itself. The replacement of する with ある is primarily literary.
examples:
  - japanese: 私たちにはもう何もできない。ただ医者を信じて待つのみだ。
    english: There is nothing we can do anymore. What we can do is nothing but wait.
  - japanese: 僕にできることはただ祈るのみです。
    english: I can do nothing but pray.
  - japanese: 将来日本の大手企業に勤めたいので、ただ勉強あるのみだ。
    english: Since I want to work in a big Japanese company in the future, I have no choice but to study.
  - japanese: A：「どうやれば作家になる夢を実現することができるのでしょう？」 B：「やっぱりなにごとも練習あるのみだな。」
    english: 'A: ''How can I achieve my dream of becoming a writer?'' B: ''In the end, It all rests on
      practice.'''
  - japanese: 「できるだけのことをした。あとは降伏するのみだ。」
    english: '''We have done all we can. All that remains is to surrender.'''
  - japanese: 人生には後悔する暇なんてありません。ただ前進あるのみです。
    english: There is no time for something like regrets in life. We have only to move forward.
  - japanese: テストを受けた後、ただ結果を待つのみだ。
    english: '''After taking the test, it just rests on the wait for results.'''
  - japanese: 「このような状況ではただ前に進んで迎えに行くのみであります。」
    english: '''In a situation like this, there is no choice but to keep moving forward.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ただ-のみ
false_friends: []
