grammar_point: つつ
jlpt: N2
meaning: While, And
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: つつis a particle in Japanese that appears after the ます-stem form of verbs. When used, it indicates
  that (B) is an action that is happening at the same time as (A). This usually translates simply as 'while
  (A), (B)'.つつis a formal grammar structure and will appear in writing more than in speech.Caution - Unlikeながら,つつis
  used more often when the (A) action is an ongoing state, rather than an actual physical action that
  involves movement.ながらmay be used for both physical motions and states.Despite this, the (B) action inつつsentences
  may either be physical movements or ongoing states.
examples:
  - japanese: 環境に悪いと知りつつ、レジ袋を使い続けている。
    english: While I know that it is bad for the environment, I continue to use plastic bags.
  - japanese: インターネットでレシピを見つつ、料理をしたので今日の晩御飯は美味しいはずです。
    english: Dinner tonight should be delicious since I cooked while looking at a recipe on the internet.
  - japanese: 走りながら携帯でゲームをしていたら、電柱にぶつかった。
    english: I bumped into a telephone pole because I was gaming on my phone while I was walking. (Natural
      Japanese)
  - japanese: 走りつつ携帯でゲームをしていたら、電柱にぶつかった。
    english: I bumped into a telephone pole because I was gaming on my phone while I was walking. (Physical
      action, unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 仕事に関係ないことを考えながら仕事をしていたら、大きなミスをしてしまった。
    english: I made a big mistake at work because I was working while thinking about something unrelated
      to work. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 仕事に関係ないことを考えつつ仕事をしていたら、大きなミスをしてしまった。
    english: I made a big mistake at work because I was working while thinking about something unrelated
      to work. (Non-physical, natural Japanese)
  - japanese: ツバメは飛行しつつ、寝ることができる。
    english: The swallow can sleep while flying.
  - japanese: 参加者は南極点遠征のために食料配給を準備しつつ、毎日のスケジュールを覚えたりする。
    english: While preparing food rations for the south pole expedition, participants were memorizing
      things like the daily schedule.
  - japanese: 老人は沈む太陽の景色をみつつ、懐かしい青春を思い出した。
    english: While watching the scenery of the setting sun, the elderly man recalled his nostalgic youth.
  - japanese: 布団をしきつつテレビに見入ってしまった。
    english: While laying out my futon, I got transfixed by the TV.
  - japanese: 連載コラムを多数執筆しつつ、長編小説も書いてしまうんだからすごいね。
    english: That's amazing that you are writing a number of serial columns for the newspaper while also
      writing a full-length novel.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/つつ
false_friends:
  - term: ながら
    meaning: While ~ing, During, As
    kind: synonym
  - term: ついでに
    meaning: While you are at it, On the occasion
    kind: synonym
