grammar_point: なくて (not)
jlpt: N4
meaning: Not ~ and, Not so, Because not (Examples)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In Japanese,なくてis a construction that combines ない (in its conjugation form, なく), with theconjunction
  particleて. This results in the same 'and' meaning as the standardてform, but with the negative meaning
  of ない.なくてis often used when the phrase that comes before it is being highlighted as an example/reason
  for a specific result. In these situations, the translation is usually 'because not (A), (B)', or 'because
  I didn't (A), (B)'.Whenなくてis used in this way, it is often followed by the speaker's feelings (in the
  form of an adjective), verbs in thepotentialform, or something that is generally beyond the control
  of the speaker. It is due to this fact that the result is 'beyond control' that the translation becomes
  'because'.Some examples of words that express things beyond the control of the speaker are困る (to be
  troubled),嬉しい (to be happy),疲れている (to feel weary),心配(to feel anxiety/worry),安心(to feel relief).
examples:
  - japanese: あなたが来れなくて残念です。
    english: It is unfortunate that you were not able to come. (Not being able to come is the reason that
      it was unfortunate)
  - japanese: 今日は寒くはなくて暖かいから、今日はジャケットを着なくてもいいね。
    english: Because it is not cold today, but warm, we don't have to wear our jackets, right? (Not being
      cold is the reason that it was hot)
  - japanese: このスマホは便利ではなくて残念だ。
    english: Since this smartphone is not useful, it's a letdown.
  - japanese: 虫歯ではなくて安心した。
    english: I am relieved because it was not a cavity.
  - japanese: 昨日は良く寝れなくて、疲れている。
    english: I am tired because I did not sleep well yesterday.
  - japanese: 明日は仕事がなくて嬉しい。
    english: I am happy because I don't have work tomorrow.
  - japanese: 店にトイレットペーパーがなくて大変です。
    english: There is no toilet paper in the stores and it's terrible. (because)
  - japanese: 重病じゃなくてホッとした。
    english: I was relieved because it wasn't a serious illness.
  - japanese: 「試験に合格したか分からなくて不安だね。」
    english: '''I don''t know if I passed the exam, and I am anxious.'' (''I am anxious because I don''t
      know if I passed the exam'')'
  - japanese: 「孫がまだきていなくて心配です。」
    english: '''My grandchild hasn''t come yet and I am worried.'' (''I am worried because my grandchild
      hasn''t come yet'')'
  - japanese: 彼氏が子猫が好きじゃなくて、がっかりした。
    english: My boyfriend doesn't like kittens and I was let down. (I was let down because my boyfriend
      doesn't like kittens)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なくて
false_friends:
  - term: Verb[て] + B①
    meaning: And・and so, Due to, Because of, Since, Conjunctive
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないで
    meaning: Without doing, Not ~ and ~
    kind: synonym
