grammar_point: ようにいう
jlpt: N4
meaning: So that, In order to, In such a way that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ようにいうis an expression which combines theauxiliary verbようだ, with theう-Verb言う. This indicates that
  something is being said in a way that instigates (A). Asようだis being linked to the verb言う, it will take
  on its adverbial form,ように.Asようにいうmeans 'to be said in the way of (A) being done', it is regularly translated
  as 'to tell', 'to request', or 'to order'. In the case of requesting,頼む may substitute for言う. For ordering,命じる
  may substitute for it instead.言う itself is the most versatile of these three verbs, as it may imply
  'to order', or 'to request'. This will depend on the tone of the speaker/overall context of the request/order.
examples:
  - japanese: 子供に水をこぼさないように言う。
    english: I tell my child not to spill his water. (To tell them in a way that 'not spilling the water'
      is the focus)
  - japanese: 弁護士が犯人に警察に話さないように言う。
    english: The lawyer told the criminal to not talk to the police. (To tell them in a way that 'not
      talking to the police' is the focus)
  - japanese: 俺の漫画を借りてもいいけど、破らないように頼むよ。
    english: It is okay for me to let you borrow my manga, but I request that you not rip it.
  - japanese: 総理は国民に海外旅行に行かないように命じる。
    english: The prime minister will order citizens to not travel abroad.
  - japanese: お弁当を持って行くことを忘れないように言った。
    english: I told you (in such a way as) not to forget to take your lunchbox with you.
  - japanese: トムに手伝いをするように頼んだよ。
    english: I requested (in such a way) that Tom help out.
  - japanese: 子供らが怖がらないように頼むよ。
    english: I request that you not scare the kids. (in such a way)
  - japanese: 卵を買うように言ったはずだ。
    english: I most definitely told you to pick up some eggs. (In such a way)
  - japanese: 明日試合があるので、今夜よく眠るように言った。
    english: Since we have a game tomorrow, I told them to get a good night's sleep tonight. (In such
      a way)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ようにいう
false_friends:
  - term: ように～てほしい
    meaning: Want ~ to ~ like ~, Want ~ to be able to ~, Want ~ to ~ in the way of ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように
    meaning: So that, In order to, In such a way that
    kind: synonym
