grammar_point: ながら
jlpt: N4
meaning: While ~ing, During, As
meaning_warning: The subject of A and B must be the same.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ながらis anotherconjunction particlein Japanese that has two primary different meanings. These meanings
  are as follows:同時の動き - Two things that are existing/happening simultaneously.確定の逆説- Two things that
  are unexpectedly existing/happening simultaneously.We will focus purely on the同時の動き meaning in this
  grammar point. To useながら, simply add it to the ます stem of verb (A), and then highlight verb (B) as part
  of the following clause. This may be translated simply as 'while' in English.Grammatically, the (B)
  action is considered to be the 'important' action, while the (A) action expresses the timeline within
  which (B) takes place.CautionDue to the (B) action being considered the 'primary' action of something
  that (A) is related to, (A) and (B) must have the same subject.Fun FactWhen used to express確定の逆説,ながらwill
  be followed byも.ながらもis a separate grammar point that we will learn more about later. In this construction,もis
  expressing surprise about the fact that (A) and (B) coexist.
examples:
  - japanese: 私は毎日、音楽を聴きながら走ります。
    english: I run every day, while listening to music.
  - japanese: 運転しながら携帯を使っていたら、前の車にぶつかった。
    english: When I was using my phone while driving, I crashed into the car in front of me.
  - japanese: 高校の頃はサッカーの練習をしながら漢字の勉強もした。
    english: When I was in high school, I studied kanji while also practicing soccer. (Natural Japanese,
      as the overall timeline of the sentence is 'while in high school')
  - japanese: 漢字の勉強をしながらアニメを見る。
    english: I watch anime while studying kanji. (Natural Japanese, as the speaker is doing both things
      at the same time)
  - japanese: 大学に通いながら、トランプ氏がアメリカの大統領だった。
    english: Trump was the president of America while I was going to university. (Unnatural Japanese.
      Although the events happen at the same time, they share no common subject/place)
  - japanese: あそこの病院は古いながらも中は綺麗だと聞いた。
    english: I heard that that hospital looks nice inside, even though it is old.
  - japanese: 私は晩ご飯を食べながら、一番好きな番組を見る。
    english: I watch my favorite TV show while eating dinner.
  - japanese: 赤ちゃんが寝ながら、おならをした。
    english: The baby farted while sleeping.
  - japanese: 友達を待ちながら、コーヒーを飲もう。
    english: Let's get coffee while waiting for our friends.
  - japanese: 運転しながら携帯を使ってはいけない。
    english: You must not use a cellphone while driving.
  - japanese: 犬と散歩をしながら、本を読んでいた。
    english: While I was walking my dog, I was reading a book.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ながら
false_friends:
  - term: ているあいだに
    meaning: While, During the time that ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: の間に
    meaning: While, During, Between, Period
    kind: synonym
  - term: つつ
    meaning: While, And
    kind: synonym
  - term: とき
    meaning: When, At the time of
    kind: synonym
  - term: かたわら
    meaning: While, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
  - term: 中
    meaning: During, While, Throughout, In the process of
    kind: synonym
  - term: うちに
    meaning: While, During
    kind: synonym
  - term: ついでに
    meaning: While you are at it, On the occasion
    kind: synonym
  - term: ているところだ
    meaning: In the process of doing ~ right now/at this moment
    kind: synonym
  - term: がてら
    meaning: On the occasion of, While … as well, While …  (one is) at it, During, Along the way
    kind: synonym
  - term: つつある
    meaning: -ing, Be -ing
    kind: synonym
