grammar_point: に即して
jlpt: N1
meaning: Inline with, Based on, In accordance with
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: に即してis a formal grammar structure which is used to express that something is being done for the
  purpose of handling a matter in the best possible way. It is a combination of に, and the する-verb即する
  'in corcordance with (A)', ' in line with (A)' in its て-form. Occasionally,に則して'in following with' will
  be used instead.This structure will be used before nouns, or may be used when one noun is directly modifying
  another. In the case of the latter,に即したwill be used instead ofに即して.Cautionに即してis used when things are
  being done based on circumstances or situations, whileに則してtends to be used when something is being done
  in accordance with laws, policies, or standards. There are situations whereに則してwill be incorrect, soに即してis
  often used in both cases in recent years.
examples:
  - japanese: 会社のルールに即して、副業をしてはいけない。
    english: In line with the company's rules, you may not work a second job.
  - japanese: あの監督はちゃんと事実に即して映画を作るから、映画を見るだけでいろいろなことが学べる。
    english: That director makes his films in accordance with the facts, so you can learn a lot just by
      watching his films.
  - japanese: 法律に則した勤務時間は週40時間にも関わらず、あの会社は社員に週70時間働かせている。
    english: Work hours in line with the law is 40 hours a week, but that company makes its worker work
      70 hours a week.
  - japanese: 外国人であろうと、日本にいる限り、日本の法律に則した罰が与えられます。
    english: No matter if you are a foreigner, as long as you are in Japan, you will be punished in line
      with Japanese law.
  - japanese: この計画は現実に則していません。
    english: This plan does not follow with reality. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 古い慣習に縛られずに，時代に即した法律を制定すべきである。
    english: The law that is in line with the time should be established without being bound to old-fashioned
      customs.
  - japanese: 映画は実情に即して制作されたものだ。
    english: The movie was made in line with actual circumstances.
  - japanese: McRonald社とSFC社との抗争は現地の法律に即して処理される。
    english: The dispute between McRonald and SFC will be handled in line with local law.
  - japanese: 会社方針に則した費用補償は30日以内にお支払いいたします。
    english: We will pay cost compensation that is in line with company policy within 30 days.
  - japanese: 請願書は方針に則して担当大臣に提出しなければならない。
    english: The petition must be submitted to the minister in charge, in line with the policy.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に即して
false_friends: []
