grammar_point: ずに済む
jlpt: N2
meaning: Get by without doing something, To get away with
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ずに済むis a grammar construction used in Japanese to indicate that one can 'get away without doing
  (A)', or 'it's no problem without (A)'. This structure is just a mix of ず, aliterary auxiliary verbthat
  attaches to verbs in the same way as ない (and has the same meaning), に, and済む, a う-Verb meaning 'to come
  to pass', or 'to end up'. Literally, it can be thought of as meaning 'it will work out without (A)'.As
  mentioned, ず connects to verbs in the same way as ない, so this structure will be seen after the verbs
  that they are negating.As the primary element in this grammar point that controls the meaning is済む,
  other negations such asないですむ, orなしですむmay also be seen.無しで functions as asuffix, so may be used directly
  after nouns, unlike ないで and ずに.In most cases, (A) will be something that is thought of as unpleasant
  or bothersome, therefore highlighting the speaker's relief that it can be avoided.
examples:
  - japanese: 今宿題をやっておけば後でやらずに済むから、今のうちにやっておこう。
    english: If I do my homework now, I can get by without doing it later, so I shall do it right now.
  - japanese: このVIPパスを使えば待たずに済みます。
    english: If you have this VIP pass, you can get by without waiting.
  - japanese: 今月契約すると初期費用を支払わないで済むので、今月中に契約することをお勧めします。
    english: We recommend that you sign the contract within this month so that you can get by without
      paying the initial cost.
  - japanese: 今年の冬は去年より暖かかったので、ヒーターなしで済みました。
    english: Since winter this year was warmer than last year, I got by without using the heater.
  - japanese: 洗い物をせずに済む。
    english: To get away with not doing the dishes.
  - japanese: 事故が起こったけど、怪我をせずに済んだ。
    english: An accident occurred, but I got away without getting injured.
  - japanese: 犯人は警察から、捕まらずに済んだ。
    english: The criminal got away without being arrested by the police.
  - japanese: ちゃんとペース配分したから、体力を消耗せずに済んだ。
    english: Because I properly paced myself, I got by without exhausting my physical strength.
  - japanese: 君が予定を合わせてくれたら、みんなのスケジュールを変更せずに済むんだけど...
    english: If you would match up your plans with everyone else's, then everyone can get by without having
      to change their schedule.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ずに済む
false_friends:
  - term: ずに
    meaning: Without doing
    kind: synonym
