grammar_point: からといって
jlpt: N2
meaning: Just because
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: からといってis a grammar pattern in Japanese comprised of the conjunction particle から 'from', と, and
  the て-form of the う-Verb言う 'to say'. It is usually translated to 'just because (A)', and will indicate
  that the underlying reason of (A) does not necessarily mean that (B) is also true, or that (B) is not
  good.As this grammar structure often includes a negative statement in the (B) part of the sentence,
  the more literal translation is closer to 'from saying that (A), doesn't mean (B)'. This simply focuses
  the nuance on that (A) does not equal (B), despite what one may think.からといってmay appear after verbs and
  い-Adjectives, or な-Adjectives and nouns that are followed by だ.In most cases,からといってwill be used for
  giving strong opinions, or for criticism of someone's actions or behavior.Caution - It is not rare to
  seeからといってabbreviated as eitherからとて, orからって. There is no change in meaning in either of these cases,
  but they are more colloquial.
examples:
  - japanese: たくさん勉強をしたからといって、テストに合格するとは限らない。
    english: Just because you studied a lot doesn't mean that you will pass the test.
  - japanese: 公園が広いからと言って、犬の放し飼いをしてもいいと言うわけではない。
    english: Just because the park is spacious doesn't mean that dogs are allowed off leash.
  - japanese: 丈夫だからといって、雑に扱えば必ず壊れます。
    english: Just because it is sturdy, it will definitely break if you handle it roughly.
  - japanese: 日本人だからといって、漢字を書けるとは限らない。
    english: Just because someone is Japanese doesn't mean that they can write kanji.
  - japanese: 日本に2年間住んでいたからとて、日本語が話せるとは限らない。
    english: Just because someone has lived in Japan for 2 years doesn't mean that they can speak Japanese.
  - japanese: 暑いからって、そんなに休憩ばかりしていたら仕事が進まないだろ。
    english: If you keep taking so many breaks just because it's hot, you will never get your job done.
  - japanese: 貧しいからといって人を差別することはこの学校で禁止されている。
    english: Discriminating against someone just because they are poor is against our school policy.
  - japanese: お父さんはよく買い物に行き、安いからといって買いすぎてしまい、買った食べ物を腐らせている。
    english: Dad often goes shopping, buys too much, just because it is cheap, and the food ends up going
      spoiled.
  - japanese: 近頃の人は便利だからといって不健康なファストフードを食べてばかり、いいことはないと思います。
    english: Recently people are only eating unhealthy fast-food just because it is convenient. I think
      that is not a good thing.
  - japanese: トレーニングをしたからといって、必ず試合に勝てるわけではない。
    english: Just because you trained, it doesn't mean that you are certain to win the match.
  - japanese: 丼物だからといって、安いとは限りません。
    english: Just because it is 'donburi', doesn't confine it to being cheap.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/からといって
false_friends:
  - term: ばかりに
    meaning: Simply because, Only because, Just because, Simply on account of
    kind: synonym
