grammar_point: ところが
jlpt: N3
meaning: Even so, However, Even though, But
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ところがis aconjunctionin Japanese that is a combination of the noun, ところ 'place', and theconjunction
  particleが. It is used to highlight that (A) was expected, but the unexpected result (B) occurred. It
  is usually translated as 'however', or 'despite that'.ところがis most often used at the beginning of a new
  sentence, before highlighting something that is contrary to what was described in the previous sentence.This
  use of が in Japanese is referred to as確定の逆接, which basically means 'a contradictory conclusion'.CautionBecauseところがhighlights
  a result that is unexpected, it can only be used for things that are beyond the control of the speaker.
  However, if the speaker is trying to do something, but assumes that their attempt may result in failure,ところがcan
  be used to show that they were unexpectedly successful.Fun FactSometimes,ところがis referred to as aconjunction
  particleitself, disregarding the combination of ところ and が. This is similar to ところで, another conjunction
  particle that has a slightly different meaning, and is frequently translated as 'by the way'.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は早く起きないといけなかったから9時に寝た。ところが、目覚ましがならなかったから寝坊した。
    english: I had to wake up early today so I went to sleep at 9pm. However, my alarm didn't go off,
      so I overslept.
  - japanese: 新しい洗濯機を買った。ところが、洗濯機が大きすぎて家に入らなかった。
    english: I bought a new washing machine. However, it was so big that it didn't fit in my house.
  - japanese: 友達に勉強の手伝いを頼んだら嫌がると思っていた。ところが、喜んで手伝ってくれた。
    english: I thought my friend was not going to like it if I asked him to help me with studying, however,
      he did so without hesitation.
  - japanese: 日本のチームが勝つと思っていた。ところが負けてしまった。
    english: I thought that the Japanese team would win. However, they lost.
  - japanese: あの人は非常に優しそうでした。ところが、裏がありました。
    english: That person seemed extremely nice. However, they had ulterior motives.
  - japanese: 友達によると、テストは難しかったそうだ。ところが、彼は百点を取った。
    english: According to my friend, the test was difficult. Even so, he got a perfect score.
  - japanese: テストに出そうなところを予想して勉強した。ところが、全然違う問題しか出なかった。
    english: I studied what I thought would be on the test. However, the questions were totally different
      from what I had studied.
  - japanese: 勝てる試合だった。ところが、怪我をして負けてしまった。
    english: It was a match I could win. However, I got injured and lost.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ところが
false_friends:
  - term: が (subject marker)
    meaning: But, However
    kind: synonym
  - term: 却って
    meaning: All the more, On the contrary, Conversely
    kind: synonym
  - term: それにしても
    meaning: Nevertheless, Even so
    kind: synonym
  - term: だが・ですが
    meaning: But, Still, However, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: それでも
    meaning: But still, And yet, Even so, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: けれども
    meaning: But, Although
    kind: synonym
  - term: けど・だけど
    meaning: But, However
    kind: synonym
