grammar_point: にもとづいて
jlpt: N3
meaning: Based on, In accordance with
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In order to say that one thing is 'based on' another in Japanese, the expressionに基づいてwill be
  used. This is a combination of thecase marking particleに, the う - Verb,基づく 'to originate from', and
  theconjunction particleて. This expression regularly highlights some kind of judgement/conclusion that
  the speaker has made, using (A) as their base.To useに基づいて, put the noun (or noun phrase) that you would
  like to identify as a 'basis' beforeに基づいて, and then express your judgment/conclusion in part (B) of
  the sentence.Alternatively, the past form of基づく may be used when connected directly to a second noun.
  (A) に基づいた (B) directly expresses that (B) is based on (A).Fun FactThe kanji基is fairly accurately translated
  as 'foundation', and is regularly used to highlight things that 'stem' from something. Due to this,に基づいてmay
  also be used to identify things that are 'produced from (A)', 'created from (A)', or 'invented based
  on (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: クライアントの指示に基づいて、編集をしておきました。
    english: I have edited this based on the client's instructions. (Edited in advance, assuming that
      would be the client's wishes)
  - japanese: 以前成功した計画に基づいて、新しい計画を立てようと思っています。
    english: I am thinking of making a new plan based on the previous successful plan.
  - japanese: 私は実話に基づいた映画が好きです。
    english: I like movies based on true stories.
  - japanese: 来週までに、アンケートに基づいたグラフを作成してください。
    english: By next week, please make a graph based on these surveys.
  - japanese: あの国の法律は宗教に基づいて作られている。
    english: That country's law is founded on religion.
  - japanese: 先月貰った資料に基づいて、このレポートを書きました。
    english: I wrote this paper based on the documents you gave me last month.
  - japanese: この小説は歴史的実話に基づいてかかれている。
    english: This novel is written based on true historical events.
  - japanese: 歴史的事実に基づいて、作られた映画。
    english: A movie based on actual historical events.
  - japanese: 個人的な意見に基づいて、書かれた文章。
    english: An essay based on my personal opinion.
  - japanese: あなたの意見に基づいて、変更を加えました。
    english: I implemented a modification based on your opinion.
  - japanese: 信用に基づいて、お金を貸す。
    english: I lend money based on trust.
  - japanese: 間違った前提に基づいているから、当然結果も間違っている。
    english: The results are incorrect because (the experiment) is being based on incorrect assumptions.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にもとづいて
false_friends:
  - term: にしたがって
    meaning: As, Following, As then, According to, In accordance with
    kind: synonym
  - term: によると・によれば
    meaning: According to
    kind: synonym
  - term: に合わせて・に合った
    meaning: In accordance with, Matching, Fitting, Suitable for, Adjust or tune to
    kind: synonym
  - term: をもとに
    meaning: Based on, From, According to
    kind: synonym
  - term: を踏まえて
    meaning: Based on, Considering, Keeping in mind, Taking into account, Therefore
    kind: synonym
  - term: からして
    meaning: Even..., Judging from, Based on
    kind: synonym
