grammar_point: だけでなく(て)～も
jlpt: N3
meaning: Not only ~ but ~ also, Not just ~ but ~ also
meaning_warning: なくて = casual・colloquial, なく = formal・written
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As an extension of the standardだけでなく, meaning 'not only, but also', adding theadverbial particleも
  to the (B) part of a sentence will place extra emphasis on the thing that is being included in the same
  category as (A).だけ itself is anadverbial particle, so will primarily follow nouns. After this, the negative
  conjunctive form of theauxiliary verbだ (でなく) will create the 'not only' meaning.て is not strictly required
  as part of this structure, but will help to create a far more natural 'separation' between (A) and (B)
  when it is used.Either じゃなく orじゃなくてmay also be used, as is the case with all でなく andではなくbased grammar
  structures.
examples:
  - japanese: アメリカだけではなく、韓国とチリにも行った事があります。
    english: Not only the US, I have also been to Korea and Chile.
  - japanese: 日本は地震だけでなく、台風も多いです。
    english: Not only are there earthquakes in Japan, there are also many typhoons.
  - japanese: 漫画は子供だけではなくて、大人にも人気があります。
    english: Not only is manga popular amongst children, it is popular among adults too.
  - japanese: お年玉は子供だけじゃなく、大人ももらえたらいいのにね。
    english: Don't you think it would be nice if adults also got money during new years and not just kids?
  - japanese: 遊園地だけじゃなくて動物園にも連れて行ってほしい。
    english: Not only the amusement park, I also want you to take me to the zoo.
  - japanese: アイスクリームだけじゃなくて、プリンも買いました。
    english: I didn't just buy ice cream, I also bought pudding.
  - japanese: 机だけじゃなくて、椅子もほしい。
    english: I don't just want a desk, I want a chair too.
  - japanese: 市場だけでなく、スーパーにもいきませんか。
    english: Won't you not only go to the market, but the store too?
  - japanese: 君だけじゃなく、僕も悪かったと思っている。
    english: It's not only you, I think that I am also to blame.
  - japanese: 原因はそれだけじゃなく、他にもあると思います。
    english: That is not the only reason, I think there is something else too.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だけでなく-て-も
false_friends:
  - term: はもとより
    meaning: Not only... but also, Let alone, Of course,
    kind: synonym
  - term: のみならず
    meaning: Not only...but, Not just...but, What is more
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけでなく
    meaning: Not only… but also
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかり
    meaning: Just, Only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: はもちろん
    meaning: Not only but also, Let alone, Not to mention, Of course
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかりでなく
    meaning: Not only…but also, As well as
    kind: synonym
  - term: をはじめ
    meaning: Not only...but also..., Starting with
    kind: synonym
