grammar_point: まい
jlpt: N2
meaning: Won't, Intend not to, Probably not
meaning_warning: する→しまい/するまい/すまい・くる→きまい/くるまい/こまい
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Theauxiliary verbまいis used in Japanese to express negative volition. This means that in many
  ways, it is the opposite of う and よう, which are theauxiliary verbsthat express positive volition.まいconnects
  to the base form of verbs, and is considered slightly formal.まい may be translated as 'won't (A)', 'to
  intend not to (A)', or 'probably not (A)'. It can be considered as a condensed way of expressing ～ないだろう.Caution
  - When appearing with する or来る, it is also common to seeまいconnected to theconjunctive formasしまい,すまい,きまいandこまい.
  However, the standardするまいand来るまいare also quite common structures.
examples:
  - japanese: あんな接客が雑なレストランにはもう行くまい。
    english: I probably won't go back to that restaurant with such poor customer service.
  - japanese: あのアパートの家賃は高いので、あそこには住むまい。
    english: The rent for that apartment is expensive, so I probably won't live there.
  - japanese: 田中くんはとてもいい人なので、そんなひどい事はしまい。
    english: Since Tanaka-kun is a nice person, he probably wouldn't do such a terrible thing.
  - japanese: 台風の警報が出ているので、今日中に届くはずだった荷物はこまい。
    english: Since there was a warning announced for the typhoon, I probably won't get the package that
      I was expecting today.
  - japanese: 昨日飲みすぎてしまったので、二度と酒は飲むまい。
    english: Because I drank too much last night, I don't intend to drink ever again.
  - japanese: 今日は火曜日だから、あのダンスクラブにはお客さんがおるまい。
    english: Because it is Tuesday, there probably won't be many people at that dance club.
  - japanese: この車の見た目からすると安くはあるまい。
    english: Judging from the appearance of this car, it is probably not cheap.
  - japanese: 私のせいでものすごい苦情だ。もう失敗するまい。
    english: I caused the terrible grievances. I intend not to fail again.
  - japanese: あの店は行列がすごすぎる。もう行くまい。
    english: The line at that shop is too crazy. I probably won't go again.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/まい
false_friends: []
