grammar_point: がする
jlpt: N4
meaning: To give off, Smell, Sound, Taste, Sensation
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In Japanese, describing things that can be experienced with the senses (excluding visual), is
  a little bit different to the way that we would convey it in English. Traditionally, we would use unique
  verbs for each of these situations, such as 'smells like (A)', 'tastes like (A)', 'feels like (A)',
  etc. While this is still possible in Japanese, it is not the most common way.がするis a grammar construction
  that focuses on the source of the smell, sound, taste, or feeling, and makes the sensory experience
  itself the subject of the sentence. To useがする, simply attach it to the end of any phrase that expresses
  which type of 'sense' is being created/given off by the subject.Fun FactJapanese often uses気'energy',
  'spirit', as something that can be perceived with the senses. Due to this, there are many phrases which
  use～気がするin the same way as this grammar point.
examples:
  - japanese: この石鹸はバラの匂いがするから好きです。
    english: I like this soap because it smells like roses. (Literally, 'it gives off a rose smell')
  - japanese: 誰かが階段を上がっている音がする。
    english: I hear someone coming up the stairs. (Literally, 'the sound of someone coming up the stairs
      is being made')
  - japanese: このバナナが変な味がする。
    english: This banana tastes weird. (Literally, 'it gives off a strange flavor')
  - japanese: 誰かに見られている感じがする。
    english: It feels like I'm being watched by someone. (Literally, 'the feeling of being watched is
      happening')
  - japanese: ヤバい、鍵をかけるのを忘れた気がする。
    english: Shoot, I feel like I forgot to lock my door. (Literally, 'my attention is being drawn to
      that I may have forgotten to lock the door')
  - japanese: なんか忘れた気がする。
    english: I feel like I forgot something. (Literally, 'my attention is being drawn to that something
      was forgotten')
  - japanese: 車の音がする。
    english: A car is making a sound.
  - japanese: この部屋はコーヒーの匂いがします。
    english: This room is giving off a coffee smell.
  - japanese: この料理は塩の味がします。
    english: This food gives off a salty taste.
  - japanese: お砂糖を入れ過ぎたから、甘い味がする。
    english: I put too much sugar in, so it gives off a sweet taste.
  - japanese: あの人と一緒に居るだけで、変な感じがする。
    english: Just being with him gives off a weird feeling.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/がする
false_friends:
  - term: にみえる
    meaning: To look, To seem, To appear
    kind: antonym
