grammar_point: だけのことはある
jlpt: N2
meaning: No wonder, Not surprising that, As expected
meaning_warning: Do not use with negative results!
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: だけのことはあるis a grammar structure consisting of the particle だけ, の, こと, は, and the う-Verb ある. It
  is used when indicating that something about (A) is 'as expected', or 'not surprising'. As a literal
  translation, it can be thought that the meaning is close to 'just in that it is (A), (B)', and expresses
  that simply because (A) is (A), (B) is to be expected.だけのことはあるwill often appear with other words that
  add emphasis to the expectation of (A), such as さすが, やはり, or やっぱり.This grammar pattern may be seen following
  verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives or nouns. な will be required after な-Adjectives.In the case of nouns
  and な-Adjectives, it is also possible to seeだっただけのことはあるwhen highlighting that some particular result
  is not surprising.Caution -だけのことはあるis not used to indicate negative expectations, so will only appear
  when the overall sentence is a positive evaluation of what was expected of (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 娘が空手の大会で優勝した。さすがに1年間毎日稽古に行っていただけのことはある。
    english: My daughter won a karate competition. As expected, she has been going to practice every day
      for a year.
  - japanese: 田中くんは体力もあるし動きもテキパキしている。やっぱり若いだけのことはあるな。
    english: As expected from someone as young as Tanaka-kun, he is physically strong and moves quickly.
  - japanese: あのホテルのサービスはとても良かったし、朝食と夕食もものすごく美味しかった。やっぱり有名なだけのことはある。
    english: The service at that hotel was very good and the breakfast and dinner were extremely delicious.
      As expected from how famous that place is.
  - japanese: 高橋先生が書く漢字はものすごく綺麗だ。さすが習字の先生だけのことはある。
    english: Takahashi-sensei's kanji writing is extremely beautiful. As expected from a calligraphy teacher.
  - japanese: あの政治家はとても信頼されている。さすが昔から正直だっただけのことはある。
    english: As expected from a politician that has been honest for years, he is very trusted.
  - japanese: 鈴木さんは６０歳なのにムキムキだ。昔ボクサーだっただけのことはある。
    english: As expected from someone who used to be a boxer, Suzuki-san is very muscular even though
      he is 60 years old.
  - japanese: 娘は試験に合格できなかった。馬鹿なだけのことはある。
    english: As expected from an idiot, my daughter failed the exam. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 息子は昨日、試験の結果発表があり合格した。さすがに二か月勉強しているだけのことはある。
    english: The exam results were announced yesterday and my son passed. As expected, he didn't study
      two months for nothing.
  - japanese: 片岡さんは英語でペラペラ話している。数年間もアメリカで留学してきただけのことはある。
    english: Kataoka-san is speaking English fluently. No wonder, he studied abroad in the United States
      for several years.
  - japanese: メアリーさんはカーリングで金メダルを取った。やはり子供のころから練習していただけのことはある。
    english: Mary won a gold medal in Curling. No wonder, she has been practicing from childhood.
  - japanese: しっかり休養しただけのことはある。かなり元気になった。
    english: As expected from taking a solid break, I have become considerably more energetic.
  - japanese: 開幕から8連勝だ。戦力を強化しただけのことはある。
    english: From the opening, he has had 8 straight victories. As expected from reinforcing his fighting
      ability.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だけのことはある
false_friends:
  - term: わけだ
    meaning: For that reason, No wonder, As you'd expect, Naturally, Thus, This is why
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけあって
    meaning: Is only natural, …Being the case, Because, As might be expected
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけに
    meaning: As might be expected, Because, All the more because, It's only natural
    kind: synonym
