grammar_point: に加えて
jlpt: N2
meaning: Not only...but also, In addition, Not to mention
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: にくわえてis a formal grammar pattern in Japanese that is a combination of に, and the て-form of the
  る-Verb加える 'to add', or 'to append'. Often, this structure will be translated as 'in addition to (A),
  (B)', or 'not only (A), but also (B).Being that it is a formal phrase,に加えてwill also often appear in
  its formal-conjunctive formに加え.To useにくわえて, simply place it directly after the noun that you would like
  to highlight as being the base information, before discussing what exactly is 'in addition' to that
  base in the following clause.Both the kanji and hiragana forms of this structure are fairly common,
  so it will be beneficial to remember both.Caution -にくわえてis frequently used when (B) is something that
  is in addition to (A) in respect to magnifying what was already true of (A). This just means that it
  will often be used to highlight something being brought about by (B) that would not be possible with
  just (A) by itself. This increase may be either positive or negative.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は暑さに加えて湿度も高くなる恐れがあるので外に出る方は熱中症に気をつけてください。
    english: Today, in addition to the heat, there is a threat of high humidity, so please be careful
      of heat stroke if you are planning to leave the house.
  - japanese: 今学期から文法に加えて漢字も教えることになった。
    english: Starting this semester, in addition to grammar, I will also be teaching Kanji.
  - japanese: 彼は空手に加えて、剣道もできるそうだ。
    english: I heard that he does kendo in addition to karate.
  - japanese: 今年の母の日には母に花束に加えて心を込めて書いた手紙を渡すつもりだ。
    english: This Mother's Day, I plan to give my mother a heartfelt letter in addition to a bouquet of
      flowers.
  - japanese: 今年になってから電気代に加えてガス料金までもが高くなった。
    english: This year, in addition to the electricity bill, even the gas bill has increased.
  - japanese: スウェーデンは天然資源の豊かさに加えて、立派な教育体制によって産業が発達している国でもある。
    english: Sweden, in addition to being rich in natural resources, is also a country of developed industries.
      This is due to their fine educational system.
  - japanese: 人が天才と呼ばれるには物事の詳細な部分を見る能力に加え、物事の全体をつかむ能力も必要である。
    english: For a person to be called genius, it is necessary for them to have the ability to grasp what
      they see as a whole, in addition to every little detail.
  - japanese: スマホという最近の携帯電話は、電話の機能に加え、パソコンのように多くの他の用途がある。
    english: In addition to having the ability to make phone calls, newer mobile phones (smartphones)
      have many functions similar to personal computers.
  - japanese: 白髪に加えてシワまで増えてきた。もう年だな。
    english: My gray hair, not to mention my wrinkles, have increased. Boy am I old.
  - japanese: 性能に加えて価格まで負けているようではどうにもならない。
    english: Nothing can be done about the inferior value, not to mention ability.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に加えて
false_friends:
  - term: はもちろん
    meaning: Not only but also, Let alone, Not to mention, Of course
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかりでなく
    meaning: Not only…but also, As well as
    kind: synonym
  - term: をはじめ
    meaning: Not only...but also..., Starting with
    kind: synonym
