grammar_point: に比べて
jlpt: N3
meaning: Compared to, When compared to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: に比べて is a set expression in Japanese, used when comparing one thing to another. It is often simply
  translated as '(A) compared to (B)', or 'when comparing (A) to (B)'.比べる is a る - Verb that means 'to
  compare', or 'to contrast'.に比べて will be attached directly after a noun, before the (B) part of the sentence
  will explain the comparison that is being made.Occasionally, thecase marking particleと will be used
  instead ofに.にand と are largely interchangeable in this expression, withにfocusing slightly more on the
  changes/differences between similar features of (A) and (B). Alternatively と often mutually contrasts
  (A) and (B), discussing their individual/unique characteristics.CautionThe way that比べる is conjugated
  is not overly important to the sentence, so long as the meaning of 'if', or 'when' is conveyed. Due
  to this, に比べたら, に比べれば, and に比べると are all possible combinations.
examples:
  - japanese: 東京の冬は北海道の冬に比べて全然寒くない。
    english: Tokyo's winter is not cold at all compared to Hokkaido.
  - japanese: 去年に比べて今年の冬は暖かい。
    english: Compared to last year, this year's winter is warm.
  - japanese: 大阪の人口は東京の人口に比べて小さい。
    english: Osaka's population is smaller compared to Tokyo.
  - japanese: 彼も真面目だけど、君は彼に比べるともっと真面目だ。
    english: He is serious too, but you are more serious compared to him.
  - japanese: 君は彼と比べて真面目だ。
    english: Compared to him, you are serious. (You are serious, while he has other qualities)
  - japanese: 日本はアメリカと比べて小さい。
    english: Compared to America, Japan is small. (Japan is small, compared to America, which is big,
      among other things)
  - japanese: 他の地域に比べたら、この地域は住みやすい。
    english: Compared to other areas, this area is very easy to live in.
  - japanese: 去年に比べれば今年は寒いけど、昨日に比べたら今日は暖かい。
    english: If compared to last year, it is colder this year. However if we compare it to yesterday,
      it is warm today.
  - japanese: 新型のパソコンに比べるとこのパソコンは遅く感じるけど、そんなに遅くない。
    english: If we compare this computer to a new model, it feels slow, but it's not that slow.
  - japanese: 一学期に比べて成績がよくなった。
    english: My grades have improved compared to first semester.
  - japanese: アメリカに比べたら、日本の方が安全だと思う。
    english: I think that when compared to America, Japan is the safer of the two.
  - japanese: 他の痛さに比べて、頭痛は一番辛い。
    english: When compared to other types of pain, headaches are the worst.
  - japanese: 昨日に比べたら今日は暖かい。
    english: Compared to yesterday, today is warmer.
  - japanese: 去年に比べて今年は雪が多い。
    english: Compared to last year, there is more snow.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に比べて
false_friends:
  - term: 割に
    meaning: Although, Despite, Rather...for, Unexpectedly, Comparatively, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしては
    meaning: (Even) considering, (Even) for
    kind: synonym
