grammar_point: は別として
jlpt: N2
meaning: Apart from, (Setting) aside, Whether or, Except for, Save for
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: は別としてis a set phrase with the meaning of 'setting aside (A)', 'except for (A)', or 'save for
  (A)'. This structure combines は,別, a noun meaning 'difference', 'separation', or 'distinction', と, and
  the て-form of する. Due to this combination, the more literal meaning is 'going ahead with (A) as an exception',
  and just declares that (A) is something that is being completely disregarded before discussing the main
  point.As は is simply marking the topic in the same way that it usually does, this phrase may be seen
  after a noun, or any other word that would usually be grouped with は. This frequently includes things
  like かどうか.It is also fairly common to see the (A) word repeated in both its positive and negated form.
  This has the nuance of 'whether or not', in the same way as かどうか.Despite this grammar structure being
  used to essentially remove (A) from what is being discussed, the primary reason for this is that (A)
  is usually an exception to some particular rule or constant that the speaker wants to highlight.Caution
  -は別としてmay occasionally be replaced byは別にして, with little change in overall nuance. The use of と merely
  sounds more definitive, while に expresses that the speaker is intentionally separating (A).
examples:
  - japanese: この家の外観は別として、中は完全にリフォームされているからとても綺麗だ。
    english: Setting aside the exterior of this house, the inside is very clean because it has been completely
      remodeled.
  - japanese: ホラーは別として映画なら基本的になんでも好きです。
    english: Setting aside horror, I generally like any movie.
  - japanese: 給料がいいかどうかは別として、自分が楽しいと思える仕事がしたい。
    english: Setting aside whether the pay is good or not, I want a job that I will enjoy.
  - japanese: このハンバーガーは体にいいかどうかは別として、とても美味しい。
    english: Setting aside whether this burger is good for my body or not, it is very tasty.
  - japanese: このお茶は美味しい美味しくないは別として、健康にいいらしい。
    english: I hear this tea is good for your health, whether it tastes good or not.
  - japanese: 試合で優勝するしないは別として、精一杯頑張る事が大切だ。
    english: Whether or not you win the match, it is important to do your best.
  - japanese: 見た目は別にして、あそこの料理はとても美味しい。
    english: Aside from the appearance, the food there is very good.
  - japanese: 喰われている餌食自身は別として喰っている捕食動物は本当に幸せだ。
    english: (Setting) aside the prey that is being eaten, the predator enjoying its meal is surely happy.
  - japanese: 速くか遅くかは別として適した靴なしにコンクリートの歩道を走るのは危険なこともある。
    english: Setting aside whether you are going fast or slow, it is dangerous to run on a concrete sidewalk
      without suitable shoes.
  - japanese: プロジェクトに間に合うか間に合わないかは別として問題解決に集中しましょう。
    english: Setting aside whether it will be on time for the project or not, let's concentrate on solving
      the problem.
  - japanese: ユーフォーの証人：「信じるかどうかは別として見たことを分かっています。」特別代理人マンハイム：「では、奥さん、空で見た閃光はユーフォーではなくて、沼地ガスはヴィーナスの光を反射しました。」
    english: 'UFO witness: ''Setting aside whether you believe me or not, I know what I have seen.'' Special
      agent Mannheim: ''Well ma''am, the flash you saw in the sky was not a UFO, but swamp gas reflecting
      light from Venus.'''
  - japanese: 考えられる正当な理由の場合は別として警察は国民を調べることはできません。
    english: Apart from a particular case of probable cause, police cannot search citizens.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/は別として
false_friends:
  - term: はともかく
    meaning: Setting aside, Apart from
    kind: synonym
