grammar_point: Verb + て
jlpt: N5
meaning: And, Then (Linking events)
meaning_warning: ている is often shortened to てる. This applies to all tenses, including てる, てて, てた, and even
  てます
details:
  Part of Speech: Conjunctive Particle
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 動詞
  単語の種類: 接続助詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In Japanese, て is a very important conjunction particle that can be used with many different
  structures. When it is partnered with a verb, it has special conjugation rules, depending on whether
  it is being added to a る-Verb or a う-Verb . In the case of う-Verbs , it also depends on what the preceding
  kana is.The most common translation in any situation is just 'and' or 'then', due to (B) being highlighted
  as something that happens/happened after (A).In these examples, we can see that て basically means '(A)
  て (B)' = '(A) happened, then (B)'. However, this is only when it is linked to another verb.Sometimes
  the て form appears as で . This is a change that happened throughout the course of history, in order
  to make sentences flow more smoothly. Despite this, there is no difference in meaning between て and
  で as a vocal change.The easiest way to identify whether to use て or で is by looking at the preceding
  kana. If the plain (dictionary) form of the verb finishes in ぐ, ぬ, ぶ, or む, then で will be used. る-Verbs
  never use で .CautionThere are several irregular verbs when it comes to て form conjugation. Let's look
  at an example of each one.Apart from these 5 verbs, the rules for て form conjugation are 100% consistent.
examples:
  - japanese: 学校に行って勉強をする。
    english: I go to school, then study. (行く's conjugation with て)
  - japanese: ダイエットをして痩せる。
    english: To go on a diet, then lose weight. (する's conjugation with て)
  - japanese: 公園に来て遊ぶ。
    english: To come to the park, then play. (来る's conjugation with て)
  - japanese: 答えを問うて書く。
    english: To enquire about the answer, then write it down. (問う's conjugation with て)
  - japanese: 許可を請うて実行する。
    english: To get permission, then act out. (請う's conjugation with て)
  - japanese: （食べる）→ 食べて
    english: To eat → To eat and then.
  - japanese: （洗う）→ 洗って
    english: To wash → To wash and then.
  - japanese: （返す）→ 返して
    english: To return (an object) → To return (an object) and then.
  - japanese: （歩く）→ 歩いて
    english: To walk → To walk and then.
  - japanese: （泳ぐ）→ 泳いで
    english: To swim → To swim and then.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/verb-て
false_friends:
  - term: る-Verb (Dictionary)
    meaning: る + ます (Ichidan Verbs)
    kind: synonym
  - term: う-Verb (Dictionary)
    meaning: う + ます (Godan Verbs)
    kind: synonym
  - term: う-Verb (Past)
    meaning: う - Verbs (Past tense)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ている①
    meaning: Is, Am, Are (~ing)
    kind: synonym
  - term: る-Verb (Negative)
    meaning: Will/Does/Do (not)
    kind: synonym
  - term: てくれてありがとう
    meaning: Thank you for ~ ing
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb + てもいい
    meaning: It's okay to, It's alright to, Can/may
    kind: synonym
  - term: ている③
    meaning: Has/have done, Is ~ing (Repetition)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ている②
    meaning: State of being, Has (have) done
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb[て]
    meaning: Please do for me (Casual request)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ていた
    meaning: Was doing ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb + て+ B
    meaning: And, And then, After that (sequence)
    kind: synonym
  - term: てから
    meaning: Once...is done, Once...happens, After doing
    kind: synonym
