grammar_point: は言うまでもない ①
jlpt: N3
meaning: It goes without saying (that), (It is) needless to say, I don't need to remind you
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: は言うまでもない is a structure that combines theadverbial particleは, the う - Verb言う, two (2) additionaladverbial
  particlesまで and も, and theい-Adjectiveない. This is regularly translated as 'it goes without saying that
  (A)', or 'it is needless to say (A)', where (A) is whatever comes before は.This expression may be preceded
  by almost any phrase, but is often emphasized even further by the inclusion of こと (or の), or ということ (or
  の).Literally, this expression is a combination of the meanings of its individual parts.は - Presents
  the topic.言う - Presents that topic as something that can be said.まで - Presents 'being said' as an extent.も
  - Emphasizes the extent set by まで.ない - Expresses that extent as not existing.Fun FactThis grammar pattern
  will often be followed by structures such as が, to add a 'but' nuance.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼の成績がクラスで一番なのは言うまでもない。
    english: It goes without saying that his grades are the best in the whole class.
  - japanese: ガソリンの値段が上がれば、電気自動車の数が増えることは言うまでもない。
    english: If the gas prices go up, it goes without saying that the amount of electric cars will increase.
  - japanese: 師匠の戦い方が凄いということは言うまでもない。
    english: It goes without saying how amazing the master's fighting style is.
  - japanese: 彼女は歌うのが上手い。ピアノも言うまでもない。
    english: She is very good at singing. Needless to say, the piano too.
  - japanese: 彼の日本語がうまいのは言うまでもないが、日本語が上手いのは日本に30年住んでいるからである。
    english: It goes without saying that his Japanese is very good, but he is good at Japanese because
      he has been living in Japan for 30 years.
  - japanese: 一人で山を登るのが危ないというのは言うまでもないが、気をつけて行けばそれほど危なくはない。
    english: It goes without saying that it is dangerous to climb a mountain on your own, but if you go
      cautiously, it is not that dangerous.
  - japanese: 困っている人を助けるべきと言うのは言うまでもない。
    english: It goes without saying that one should help people in need.
  - japanese: エネルギーの無駄使いをやめれば、電気代が下がることは言うまでもない。
    english: It goes without saying that if you stop wasting electricity, the electricity bill will go
      down.
  - japanese: ともちゃんの大阪での知名度が高いことは言うまでもない。
    english: It goes without saying that Tomo-chan's popularity in Osaka is high.
  - japanese: 「にせあい」がこの世代の最良の漫画の一つであることは言うまでもないだろう。
    english: It goes without saying that 'False love' is one of the best manga of this generation.
  - japanese: 生きるのに酸素が必要なことは言うまでもない。
    english: It goes without saying that oxygen is essential to live.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/は言うまでもない1
false_friends:
  - term: 言うまでもない ②
    meaning: It goes without saying, It is needless to say, Of course, Obviously
    kind: synonym
