grammar_point: からする
jlpt: N1
meaning: About, Or more, Over, Starts at
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: からするis a slightly formal grammar pattern in Japanese that appears after some kind of number or
  counter in order to indicate a minimum from which an estimation is being made. It will generally be
  translated as 'about (A)', '(A) or more', or 'starting at (A)'.This structure is a combination of the
  case-marking particle から, and the special verb する. It has quite a literal meaning in that a number is
  'going from (A)', where (A) is the start point and the speaker doesn't know the exact amount.In addition
  toからする, からの may be used with the same meaning. However, unlike する, because の must attach directly to
  a second noun, からの is a bit more limited in the way it will be used.CautionDue toからするbeing used for
  giving an estimation, it has a tendency to only appear when the number or amount of something is quite
  large, and the speaker is emphasizing that the actual number cannot be guessed. Because of this, it
  may sound quite unnatural when used with small numbers.Cautionからするtends to be used most frequently in
  regard to money, whileからのwill be used when referring to people and other general amounts. In the case
  of things like weight, size, or distance,からある, another similar structure will be used.からあるwill be covered
  in its own grammar point.
examples:
  - japanese: その靴買ったの？それって15万からするやつでしょ？やばいね。
    english: You bought those shoes? Those are the ones that cost 150,000 yen or more, aren't they? That's
      nuts.
  - japanese: この辺だと家賃は15万からする。
    english: Around here, rent costs 150,000 yen or more.
  - japanese: 父から300万円からする時計をもらった。
    english: I received a watch that costs 3,000,000 yen or more from my father.
  - japanese: この商品を製造するには、１億からのお金がかかる。
    english: In order to manufacture this product, it will cost 100 million yen or more.
  - japanese: 昨日の大地震で10人からの人が行方不明になった。
    english: 10 or more people have gone missing due to the big earthquake that happened yesterday.
  - japanese: 105円からするライトを買ったらすぐ壊れた。
    english: When I bought a light that went from 105 yen, it broke immediately. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: この辺りはとても高いよ。家賃は１０万円からする。
    english: This neighborhood is awfully expensive. The rent is around 100,000 yen or more.
  - japanese: ５００ｋｍからの距離を車で走るのは疲れる。
    english: Traveling 500 kilometers or more by car is tiring.
  - japanese: スタジアムに１０万人からの人が集まったそうだ。
    english: I heard that over 100,000 people gathered at the stadium.
  - japanese: ビルさんは彼女に２００万ドルからする車を買ってあげたらしいわ。
    english: I heard that Bill gave his girlfriend a car that is worth over 2 million dollars.
  - japanese: アーノルドさんはもう７２歳なのに１００キロからのダンベルを持ち上げられるよ。
    english: Mr. Arnold can lift over 100 kg of dumbbells even though he is 72!
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/からする
false_friends: []
