grammar_point: かどうか
jlpt: N4
meaning: Whether or not, If...or not
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: かどうかis an expression in Japanese which combines the 'or' meaning ofか, with the 'how' meaning
  of どう. (A)かどうか(B) is regularly translated as 'whether or not (A), (B)'.To useかどうか, simply attach it
  to the end of any phrase that you want to express the 'or' use ofかabout, then add the (B) phrase.Although
  'whether or not' is the standard translation, the more literal translation ofかどうかis 'if it's (A), or
  however it is, (B)'.
examples:
  - japanese: サチコと付き合うかどうか分からない。
    english: I don't know whether or not I will go out with Sachiko.
  - japanese: 水が汚いからこの川が深いかどうか分からない。
    english: Since the water is dirty, I don't know whether or not this river is deep.
  - japanese: この携帯が便利かどうか分からない。
    english: I don't know whether or not this cell phone is useful.
  - japanese: 目が悪いからあそこにいるのが父親かどうかわからない。
    english: Because I have bad eyes, I don't know whether or not the person over there is my father.
  - japanese: 旅行に行けるかどうかわからない。
    english: I don't know whether or not I can go on a trip.
  - japanese: この食べ物は美味しいかどうかわからないので、食べてみたい。
    english: Because I don't know whether or not it is delicious, I want to try eating this food.
  - japanese: サンタさんがいるかどうか探しています。
    english: People are searching for whether or not Santa exists.
  - japanese: まだ日本に行けるかどうか、分からない。
    english: I don't know whether or not I still can go to Japan.
  - japanese: 今の動物は犬かどうか分からないけど、怖かった。
    english: I don't know whether or not the animal I just saw was a dog, but it was frightening.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かどうか
false_friends:
  - term: か何か
    meaning: Or something, Or something like that
    kind: synonym
  - term: Question-phrase + か
    meaning: Including questions within sentences
    kind: synonym
  - term: 〜でも 〜でも
    meaning: Whether ~ or, Neither ~ or
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～ても～なくても
    meaning: Whether ~ or not
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても～にしても
    meaning: Regardless of whether
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても
    meaning: Even though, Even if, Even when, Also
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしろ～にしろ
    meaning: Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: か否か
    meaning: Whether or not
    kind: synonym
