grammar_point: てある
jlpt: N4
meaning: Something is done, Has been done, Remaining state
meaning_warning: Only used with transitive verbs!
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Like 'verb +ている', 'verb +てある' is a structure that will convey an ongoing state. However, that
  is where the similarities stop.てあるmay only be used with transitive verbs, and highlights the object
  itself as being the subject of the sentence (rather than the initial person/thing that performed the
  action).Becauseあるis being used, it highlights the object as being inanimate (or unable to undo the action
  that was performed on it). Due to this,てあるis regularly translated as 'to be left (A)', or 'to remain
  (A)', where (A) is the original verb that somebody performed on the object.がmay mark the object in these
  sentences when the action itself involves some kind of preparation. Examples are as follows:予約- Reservation
  (requires time investment to reserve)準備- Preparation (requires time investment to prepare)録音- Recording
  (requires time investment to make the recording)In situations that involve no real preparation (opening
  a door, for example),をwill be preferred when marking the object.
examples:
  - japanese: あなたの弁当は机の上に置いてあるよ。
    english: I have left you lunch on the table. (Literally 'your lunch is in the state of having been
      left on the table')
  - japanese: 車は駐車場の真ん中に止めてある 。
    english: I parked the car in the middle of the parking lot. (Literally 'your car is in the state of
      having been stopped in the carpark')
  - japanese: 庭にトウモロコシが植えてある から気を付けてね。
    english: Corn has been planted in the yard, so please be careful. (Literally 'corn is in the state
      of having been planted')
  - japanese: このドアは開けてある。
    english: This door has been left open.
  - japanese: 明日の準備をしてあるので、もう寝ます。
    english: I have done my preparation for tomorrow so I am going to bed.
  - japanese: テレビ台の上に置いてあるよ。
    english: It has been placed on top of the TV stand.
  - japanese: 明日の準備してあるんですか。
    english: Have tomorrow's preparations been done?
  - japanese: もう晩ご飯を作ってあるから、早く帰って来て。
    english: Dinner has already been made, so hurry home.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てある
false_friends:
  - term: ままに (as desired)
    meaning: As is, While remaining, Left in a state
    kind: synonym
  - term: ておく
    meaning: To do something in advance
    kind: synonym
