grammar_point: より～のほうが
jlpt: N5
meaning: To be more ~ than ~
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Expression
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 表現
  単語の種類: 形容詞・形容動詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: より～のほうが can be thought of as similar to the grammar points たほうがいい , and ないほうがいい , in that it
  expresses that one thing is the 'better (A)', or 'more (A)'. However, unlike ほうがいい based expressions,
  any pair of adjectives, verbs, or nouns may be compared in this construction, so long as のほうが is followed
  by an adjective.より translates roughly to 'than', or 'rather than' in this phrase.From the examples listed
  here, we can see that より will always appear after the word that has the lower extent of (A), when used
  together with のほうが .CautionWhen より is used by itself, or when it is not linked directly to the previous
  word, it can seem like it has the opposite meaning. However, in these cases, のほうが just remains unsaid.In
  this example, because the より is after が , not before これ , it is easy to assume that これ is the thing
  that is lower. However, this が behaves in the same way as のほうが , meaning that これ itself is the more
  expensive thing, with より just being used like 'relatively' (compared to many other things).CautionAlthough
  の方が is the most common construction, the particle を may sometimes replace が. This is especially true
  when used with markers of desire such as たい and ほしい. The primary difference between these two is that
  が emphasizes what a person wants or wants to do (the whole statement), while を emphasizes the item or
  action itself (regardless of the rest of the statement). With たい, both を and が will sound completely
  natural. However, with ほしい, が will be more natural, while を is accepted.This use of ほしい only applies
  to wanting items, as opposed to たい, which indicates the desire to 'do' something.
examples:
  - japanese: これがより高い。
    english: This is more expensive. (Compared to other things in general)
  - japanese: 給料がいい仕事より、楽しい仕事の方をしたい。(Natural Japanese)
    english: I want to do a job that is fun, more than a job that pays better.
  - japanese: この小さいテレビより、その大きいテレビの方を欲しい。(Natural Japanese, but が is more common)
    english: I want that big TV rather than this small TV.
  - japanese: このパンよりそのパンのほうが美味しいです。
    english: That bread is more delicious than this bread.
  - japanese: バスケットボールよりサッカーのほうが好き。
    english: I like soccer more than basketball.
  - japanese: ユキよりリュウトのほうが賢い。
    english: Ryuto is smarter than Yuki.
  - japanese: 月曜日より、日曜日のほうが好き。
    english: I like Sunday more than Monday.
  - japanese: あそこの 公園より、家に近い公園のほうが広い。
    english: The park near my house is more spacious than that park over there.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/より-のほうが
false_friends:
  - term: ほど～ない
    meaning: Is not as…as, Isn't... like..., Not to the extent of...
    kind: synonym
  - term: より
    meaning: More than, Over
    kind: synonym
  - term: たほうがいい
    meaning: It'd be better to, Should do
    kind: synonym
