grammar_point: べくもない
jlpt: N1
meaning: No (doubt or hope), There is no way, It is impossible, Not a hope in hell
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: As mentioned in the several other grammar structures that include べく,  this structure is theconjunctive
  formof theclassical auxiliary verbべし ‘shall’. It will be attached to thedictionary formof verbs in order
  to convey the purpose, necessity, or likelihood of an action. When combined with theadverbial particleも,
  and the い-Adjective ない, it is often translated as ‘it is impossible to (A)’, or ‘there is no way to
  (A)’.べくもないis a pattern that usually appears with verbs highlighting the thinking or emotions of the
  speaker, and how that action is impossible or inconceivable for them.CautionIn the case of する, べく may
  be connected directly to する, or to the stem, す.
examples:
  - japanese: 自分が作ったパスタはあの有名シェフが作るパスタと比べるべくもないが、結構おいしいと思う。
    english: It is impossible to compare the pasta I made with the one made by that famous chef, but I
      think mine is quite good.
  - japanese: あの顔を見てみろ、あいつが彼を殺したという事は疑うべくもない。
    english: Look at that face, there is no doubt that they are the one that killed him.
  - japanese: 私自身が先生になるまでは、先生の大変さなど知るべくもなかった。
    english: Until I became a teacher myself, I could never have known how hard it is to be a teacher.
  - japanese: あの中古車販売店が詐欺まがいなことをやっていたということは、否定するべくもない事実だ。
    english: There is no doubt that that used car dealership was doing something that could be considered
      as a scam.
  - japanese: そんな解決策では問題が解決すべくもない。
    english: There is no way that we can solve the problem with such a solution.
  - japanese: 小説：「戦力差は歴然としているゆえ、まともな勝負は望むべくもない。」
    english: 'Novel: ''Since the difference in strength is clear, there is no hope of a decent match.'''
  - japanese: いくら頑張ったところで、絵は写真にはおよぶべくもないのである。
    english: No matter how much one tries, a drawing is no match for a photograph.
  - japanese: 地球温暖化は人間活動と直接関係があるということは疑うべくもない。
    english: There is no doubt that global warming is directly linked to human influence.
  - japanese: 小説：「今回、彼は危害を免れたにせよ、そのように運転を続けていては将来は彼に何事が起りかねぬかは、知るべくもない。」
    english: 'Novel: ''Even though he escaped injury this time, there is no way to know what might happen
      to him in the future if he continues driving like that.'''
  - japanese: 小説：「この真正直な少年に、嘘をつくなど望むべくもない。」
    english: 'Novel: ''There''s not a hope in hell that this honest boy would lie.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/べくもない
false_friends: []
