grammar_point: たほうがいい
jlpt: N5
meaning: It'd be better to, Should do
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Adjective
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 表現
  単語の種類: 形容詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In Japanese, there are several ways to express that something 'should' be done. たほうがいい is one
  of the most common, especially when giving advice. This expression uses the past tense of a verb grouped
  with 方 , the particle が , and the い-Adjective , いい .As 方 can be translated closely to 'way', or 'direction',
  this expression is suggesting that one specific choice is simply the better 'way'.This expression is
  quite direct, and can imply that there may be some sort of negative consequence if (A) is not done.
  In that respect, this phrase could also be translated as 'It would be better if you did (A)'.たほうがいいmay
  also be used with the base (dictionary) form of a verb, but will sound more like a general opinion in
  those cases, rather than giving advice.CautionBecause this phrase is quite direct, it would be better
  to use a more polite expression like ばいい , if giving general advice.
examples:
  - japanese: お医者さんに聞いたほうがいい。
    english: It would be better to ask a doctor.
  - japanese: 帰ったほうがいい。
    english: It'd be better to go home.
  - japanese: 朝ごはんを食べたほうがいい。
    english: It would be better to eat breakfast.
  - japanese: 自分の皿を洗ったほうがいい。
    english: It would be better to wash your own dishes.
  - japanese: それは返したほうがいいだろう。
    english: It would be better to return that, wouldn't it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たほうがいい
false_friends:
  - term: ないほうがいい
    meaning: It'd be better not to, Shouldn't do
    kind: antonym
  - term: べきではない
    meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
    kind: antonym
  - term: べき
    meaning: Must, Should , Ought to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばいい
    meaning: Can, Should, It'd be good if
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことだ
    meaning: Should, Ought
    kind: synonym
  - term: たらいい・といい
    meaning: It would be nice if, It would be good if, Should, I hope
    kind: synonym
  - term: より～のほうが
    meaning: To be more ~ than ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: たらどう
    meaning: Why don't you...?, What if you did...?
    kind: synonym
