grammar_point: ことは〜が
jlpt: N2
meaning: It is true...but, although, but
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ことは～がis a set expression which indicates that 'while something is (A), also (B)'. In English,
  this is usually interpreted as '(A) is true, but (B), or 'although (A), (B)'. When this grammar structure
  is used, the same word will be repeated before both ことは and が (or けど). Due to this, the literal translation
  is similar to 'that which is (A) is (A), but (B)'. This simply emphasizes that the speaker recognizes
  (A) as being true, but would like to express information that is contrary to that.ことは～がcan appear with
  any type of word, but だ will need to be used following nouns before が, while な, である, だった or ではない tends
  to follow な-Adjectives.In most cases,ことは～がexpresses that the base fact of (A) is true, but the speaker
  has some sort of opinion or impression that is in opposition to that fact.
examples:
  - japanese: 漢字は読めることは読めるが、簡単な漢字しか読めないです。
    english: It is true that I can read kanji, but I can only read easy ones.
  - japanese: 新しい家は広いことは広いけど、家具が多いから狭く見える。
    english: It is true that my new house is spacious, but because there is a lot of furniture, it looks
      small.
  - japanese: このスマホは便利であることは便利であるけど、本体がデカすぎて片手では操作できない。
    english: It is true that this smartphone is useful, but because it is big, I can't use it with just
      one hand.
  - japanese: ここは道路なことは道路だけど、狭すぎて車が通れない。
    english: It is true that this road is a road, but it is too narrow that a car can't pass through.
  - japanese: '岩村: 「日本語が分かりますか？」 土井: 「分かることは分かりますが、簡単な言葉だけです。」'
    english: 'Iwamura: ''Do you understand Japanese?'' Doi: ''It is true that I understand it, but only
      simple vocabulary.'''
  - japanese: '遠藤: 「北村さんって、日本に行ったことある？」 北村: 「行ったことは行ったけど、東京の空港を見ただけだよ。」'
    english: 'Endo: ''Kitamura-san, have you ever been to Japan?'' Kitamura: ''It is true that I have
      been there, but I have only seen Tokyo Airport.'''
  - japanese: '藤本: 「守口さんって、優しい人らしい。」石川: 「優しいことは優しいが、自分の家族に対してだけ。」'
    english: 'Fujimoto: ''I have heard that Moriguchi-san is a nice person.'' Ishikawa: ''Well, it is
      true that Moriguchi-san is nice, but only towards her family.'''
  - japanese: 雨に濡れたことは濡れたが、大したことはなかった。
    english: It is true that it got soaked by the rain, but it wasn't a big deal.
  - japanese: 熱が出たことは出たが、インフルエンザではありませんでした。
    english: It is true that I had a fever, but it wasn't the flu.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことは-が
false_friends: []
