grammar_point: にかこつけて
jlpt: N1
meaning: In the name of, Using the excuse of, To use as a pretext of, Under the guise or pretense of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: に託けてis a structure based on thecase-marking particleに, and the る-Verb託ける ‘to consign as’, or
  ‘to label as’. As this translation doesn’t exhibit the same nuance well in English all the time, it
  is commonly interpreted as ‘in the name of (A)’, or ‘under the pretense of (A)’.に託けてwill be used after
  nouns, or verbs that have been nominalized with の.CautionDespite the common interpretations, the original
  meaning of ‘to consign’ works just as well in terms of meaning ‘labeling it as (A)’. This is due toに託けてbeing
  used primarily for criticism of surface-level excuses used to fulfill an ulterior motive.
examples:
  - japanese: 病院に行くというのに託けて仕事を休んだ。
    english: I took a day off work under the pretense of going to the hospital.
  - japanese: 彼の家に忘れ物をしたというのに託けて彼のところにもう一度行く。
    english: I will go to his place again under the pretense that I left something at his place.
  - japanese: 彼女はいつも何かにかこつけて僕の家に来ようとする。本当にやめてほしい。
    english: She always tries to come to my place under the pretense of something. I really want her to
      stop.
  - japanese: 風邪にかこつけて、授業を休んで一日中テレビを見ながらダラダラしていた。
    english: Using the pretext of a cold, I skipped class and loafed around and watched TV all day.
  - japanese: 靴ひもを結ぶのに託けて落ちていた財布をこっそりと拾った。
    english: I sneakily picked up the wallet that was on the ground, labeling it as tying my shoelace.
  - japanese: あいつは出張に託けて、また釣りに行っているに違いない。
    english: I bet he has gone fishing again, consigning it as a business trip.
  - japanese: 「花子ったら部活動に託けて、部室に潜り込んでひとり遊んでばかりいるよ。」
    english: '''Speaking of Hanako, she sneaks into the club room under the pretense of club activity
      and just lazes around.'''
  - japanese: 人（私も含めて）はお菓子が大好きで何かに託けていつも買ってしまうのではないだろうか。
    english: I think that people (myself included) love sweets and will always buy them under some pretext.
  - japanese: 武田「田中さんったら出張に託けてパリを観光するつもりね。」田中さん「いやいや、そんなこと。」
    english: 'Takeda: ''Tanaka-san, you''re planning to go sightseeing in Paris using the pretense of
      a business trip, aren''t you?''Tanaka: ''No no, nothing like that.'''
  - japanese: A：「あすかさんと会いたいけどどうしたらいい？」 B：「プリントを渡すというのに託けて家に行ったらどう？」
    english: 'A: ''I want to meet with Asuka, but what should I do?''B: ''How about going to her house
      under the pretext of intending to give her printouts?'''
  - japanese: 風邪に託けて、仕事を休んで一日中コーラを飲んだりゲームをしてしまった。
    english: Using the pretext of a cold, he took some time off work, drank coke, and played games all
      day long.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にかこつけて
false_friends: []
