grammar_point: それに
jlpt: N4
meaning: And, Besides, Moreover, In addition
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Theconjunctionそれにis regularly considered to be one word in Japanese, but is more correctly just
  a combination of thepronounそれ, and thecase marking particleに.The thing thatそれis 'substituting' for is
  the entire clause/sentence that came before it, whileにhighlights that extra information is about to
  be added. In this way, it translates to 'and to that', or 'and on that', where 'that' is the previous
  information. Often, it is translated simply as 'moreover', 'in addition', or 'and'.Becauseそれにis 'adding'
  information withに, the (B) information itself must be something that would logically happen 'in addition
  to (A)', or 'as a result of (A)'. Therefore,それにwill highlight something that has either all positive,
  or all negative connotations. Never both.
examples:
  - japanese: それに彼は家事もしないんでしょう？
    english: In addition, he doesn't do house chores either, right?
  - japanese: リサの会社には残業がない。それに給料もいい。
    english: Lisa's company doesn't have overtime work. What's more, her salary is good too.
  - japanese: 昨日、道で5千円を拾って、それに車が抽選で当たった！
    english: Yesterday, I picked up 5 thousand yen on the street, and in addition to that I won a car
      in the lottery. (Natural Japanese, as both events are positive)
  - japanese: 最近は雨がいっぱい降るし、それに風も強いし、外に出れなくて寂しい。
    english: Recently, it has been raining a lot, and in addition to that the wind has been strong. I'm
      sad that I can't go outside. (Natural Japanese, as both events are negative)
  - japanese: 今朝はマッサージに行って、それにスピード違反の切符も切られた。
    english: I went to get a massage this morning, and moreover I also got a speeding ticket. (Unnatural
      Japanese, as one event is positive, while the other is negative)
  - japanese: 運動は楽しいです。それに体にいいです。
    english: Exercise is fun. In addition, it's good for you.
  - japanese: 夜遅くまで働きます。それに朝も早いです。
    english: I work late into the night. In addition, I am up early.
  - japanese: この旅館の料理が美味しい。それに周りの景色も美しい。
    english: This Japanese-style hotel's food is delicious. Moreover, the surrounding scenery is beautiful.
  - japanese: 日本は住みやすい。それに病院代が安い。
    english: It is easy to live in Japan. Moreover medical expenses are reasonable.
  - japanese: 山の上からの景色が綺麗。それに空気も綺麗。
    english: The scenery from atop the mountain is beautiful. In addition the air is clear.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/それに
false_friends:
  - term: おまけに
    meaning: In addition, On top of that, What is more, To make matters worse
    kind: synonym
  - term: なお②
    meaning: In addition, Incidentally, Furthermore, Moreover
    kind: synonym
  - term: また
    meaning: Also, As well, Moreover, Again, Additionally
    kind: synonym
  - term: しかも
    meaning: Moreover, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: その上
    meaning: Besides, In addition, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: すると
    meaning: Having done..., If...is done..., (And/just) then, Thereupon, If so
    kind: synonym
