grammar_point: どころか
jlpt: N3
meaning: Far from, Anything but
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: どころかis a combination of thenounところ 'place', and thesentence ending particleか. The change from
  ところ to どころ is a consistent sound change that is seen regularly in sentences that use所negatively.どころかmay
  be translated as 'far from', 'let alone' or 'anything but'. It strongly negates any statement before
  it, while also emphasizing what comes after it.どころかmay be paired with theattributive formof any other
  word. However, this is not a strict rule, as it can also be seen with the語幹stem form ofな-Adjectives,
  and directly attached to nouns.Sentences that useどころかmust always have a part (B) that emphasizes some
  type of far more important information (in the speaker's opinion).Fun FactAs か simply transforms どころ
  into either a question, or a statement of doubt, the literal translation ofどころかis similar to 'it's not
  even remotely (A)' as a statement, or 'do you honestly think it's (A)!?', when asking a direct question.
examples:
  - japanese: このカレーは甘いどころか、辛かった。
    english: Far from being sweet, this curry was spicy.
  - japanese: 北海道は寒いどころか、暑かった。
    english: Far from being cold, Hokkaido was hot.
  - japanese: 昨日の仕事は楽などころか、めちゃくちゃ大変だったよ。
    english: Far from being easy, work yesterday was hectic.
  - japanese: 彼女は酎ハイどころかビールも飲まない。
    english: Let alone Chuhai, she doesn't even drink beer.
  - japanese: そんなにゆっくりしているどころか。
    english: This is not the time to be even remotely that relaxed!
  - japanese: 俺がやるどころか？そんなことをやるのは弟しかいないだろ！
    english: Do you honestly think I would do such a thing? My brother is the only person who would do
      that.
  - japanese: 彼は休むどころか、全力を出し切った。
    english: Far from taking a break, he gave everything he had.
  - japanese: そのケーキは甘いどころか、酸っぱかった。
    english: Far from being sweet, that cake was sour.
  - japanese: 彼はヨーロッパまで行くどころか、玄関から一歩も出ていない。
    english: Far from going to Europe, he hasn't even taken a step outside.
  - japanese: 健康にいいものでも、食べすぎたら健康になるどころか病気になりますよ。
    english: Eating in excess even if it's healthy food is not good for you. Far from that, it will make
      you ill!
  - japanese: こんなに勉強しているのに、成績は良くなるどころか悪くなっている。
    english: Despite studying so much, far from getting better, my grades got worse.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/どころか
false_friends:
  - term: ものか
    meaning: Definitely not, Absolutely not, Impossible, Do you really think~?
    kind: synonym
  - term: どころではない
    meaning: This is not the time for…, Far from, Out of the question
    kind: synonym
