grammar_point: あるいは
jlpt: N3
meaning: Or, Possibly, Maybe, Perhaps, Or possibly
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: あるいは is a construction in Japanese that is used as a接続語(conjunction). It usually appears after
  statements that have been marked with theadverbial particleか. あるいは may be loosely translated as 'possibly',
  'maybe', or 'or'.Although usually being treated as a single word, あるいは is actually a combination of
  theattributive formof或る, a verb meaning 'a certain', thesuffix characterい (used for makingい-Adjectives),
  and theadverbial particleは. Due to this, the literal meaning of あるいは is just 'another possibility',
  as it highlights a certain something existing within the same area/category as (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 運動をさせるかあるいは餌を減らしてください。
    english: Please make them exercise or possibly lessen the amount of food.
  - japanese: パソコンの動作が遅いかあるいは電源が点かなくなった場合は、私達が直します。
    english: In the event that the computer gets slow or doesn't turn on, we will fix it.
  - japanese: 有名かあるいは綺麗であれば誰でも入れるらしい。
    english: I heard that if you are famous or maybe beautiful, anyone can get in.
  - japanese: 土曜日かあるいは日曜日までには終わらせておきます。
    english: I will try to have it finished by either Saturday or possibly Sunday.
  - japanese: 牛乳あるいはチーズが使われている料理は食べられません。
    english: I can't eat anything that uses milk, or another possibility is cheese.
  - japanese: 月曜日あるいは火曜日に新しい生徒が来ます。
    english: A new student will come on either Monday, or another possibility is Tuesday.
  - japanese: 月曜日或いは火曜日であれば、参加できます。
    english: If it is Monday or Tuesday, I can attend.
  - japanese: 植物或いは昆虫を観察しましょう。
    english: Let's observe some plants or bugs.
  - japanese: 晴れ或いは曇りであれば、お祭りに行きましょう。
    english: Whether it is sunny or cloudy, let's go to the festival.
  - japanese: 今年或いは来年には、そちらに行けるかと思います。
    english: I think I will be able to go there this year or next year.
  - japanese: 動画或いは写真でもいいので送ってください。
    english: Please send me video or pictures, anything is ok.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/あるいは
false_friends:
  - term: か (question)
    meaning: Or
    kind: synonym
  - term: もしかしたら
    meaning: Perhaps, Maybe, Possibly
    kind: synonym
