grammar_point: 一旦
jlpt: N2
meaning: Once …, If … for a short time, Temporarily (stop), For now or the time being
meaning_warning: 一旦 can be rephrased to 一度 but not the other way around
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 一旦, an adverb meaning 'for a short time', or 'briefly', is a structure that is used in Japanese
  to indicate that 'once (A), (B)'. This particular meaning comes from the inclusion of hypothetical structures
  such as ば, と, or たら, and will usually appear with a negated verb in the (B) part of a sentence.一旦based
  sentences will indicate that returning to the previous state will be difficult, at least for a short
  time.Other common translations include 'for the time being', and 'for now'.一旦will primarily appear at
  the beginning of sentences, or directly before a ば, と, or たら modified verb.Fun-fact -一旦originally comes
  from the noun一旦meaning 'one morning', or 'one brief period'. The旦kanji itself signifies 'daybreak' or
  'dawn'. In this way, it can be a useful memory tool to remember一旦as the 'dawning' of some period that
  will not end until it has run its own natural course.
examples:
  - japanese: 一旦再起動をすれば、もとに戻るはずです。
    english: Once the system is rebooted, it should return to normal.
  - japanese: 娘は一旦泣き出したら、しばらく泣き止まないので大変です。
    english: Once my daughter starts crying, she wont stop for a while, so it can get hard.
  - japanese: 一旦集中力が切れてしまうと、再び集中するのに時間がかかる。
    english: Once I lose focus, it takes me a while to regain my focus.
  - japanese: 一旦一戸建てに住めばアパートに戻れない。
    english: Once you live in a stand-alone house, you won't be able to go back to an apartment.
  - japanese: 一旦いつのまにか健康を失うなら健康の価値を理解するでしょう。
    english: Once you lose your health (without you noticing), you will understand its value.
  - japanese: 一旦これをしたら残りをAさんに任せてください。
    english: Once you do this, please leave the rest to A-san.
  - japanese: 「一旦赤いカプセルを飲むとワンダーランドに帰れないだろう。そしてきみにウサギの穴の奥を見せよう。」
    english: '''Once you take the red pill, you won''t be able to return to Wonderland. And I will show
      you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.'''
  - japanese: 一旦何かを学ぶのを止めると再開しにくくなる。
    english: Once you stop learning something, starting again becomes hard.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/一旦
false_friends: []
