grammar_point: なければならない
jlpt: N4
meaning: なければならない
meaning_warning: null
details:
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Likeなければいけない,なければならないis a structure that implies that something 'must be done'. However, it is
  important to remember that this is actually a double negative, and therefore means 'If (A) is not done,
  it cannot become', or more simply '(A) cannot not be done'.To make this construction, theauxiliary verbない
  will need to be conjugated withば, creatingなければ(if not). After this,ならない(to not become) will be added
  to the end.As we learned in theなきゃlesson,なければmay be shortened toなきゃ. This structure is frequently used,
  either with or without the addedならない.CautionWhileいけない(to not be able to go) andならない(to not become) are
  quite similar,ならないwill rarely be used outside of formal situations, or in writing. Due to this,いけないwill
  be heard much more frequently in speech (when it is not omitted).
examples:
  - japanese: 仕事をしなければならない。
    english: I must do my work.
  - japanese: 先輩が部屋に入って来たら立って挨拶をしなければならない。
    english: If your senpai comes into the room, you must stand and greet them.
  - japanese: 今日も帰りが遅くなったら妻に怒られるから、もうすぐ帰らなきゃ。
    english: My wife is going to scold me if I come home late today too, so I have to go home soon.
  - japanese: 今日は家事をやらなきゃならないから出かけられない。
    english: I have to do some chores today, so I can't go out.
  - japanese: したくない時でも、宿題をしなければならない。
    english: Even when you don't want to, you have to do your homework.
  - japanese: 飛行機に乗りたいなら、空港に行かなければならない。
    english: If you want to ride an airplane, you have to go to the airport.
  - japanese: 先生の話を聞かなければならないよ。
    english: You have to listen to the teacher (talk).
  - japanese: 髪の毛が長いから、切らなければならない。
    english: My hair is long, so I have to cut it.
  - japanese: 新しいノートを買わなければならないかもしれない。
    english: I might have to buy a new notebook.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なければならない
false_friends:
  - term: てはいけない
    meaning: Must not, May not
    kind: antonym
  - term: べきではない
    meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
    kind: antonym
  - term: てはならない
    meaning: Must not, Cannot, Should not
    kind: antonym
  - term: なくちゃ・なきゃ
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくてはいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくてはならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないと
    meaning: Must, Have to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことだ
    meaning: Should, Ought
    kind: synonym
  - term: ねばならない
    meaning: Must, Have to, Should
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
