grammar_point: ～のうち(で)
jlpt: N2
meaning: Of the, Among(st)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Coming from the noun内'within', のうち is a grammar pattern that appears after nouns or numbers,
  in order to signify 'amongst (A)' in the same way as の中. Like の中,のうちis often followed by で. However,
  it can also be followed by の when attached directly to another number.The noun specified byの内may represent
  a range or a limit, and is not limited to appearing with numbers. Like の中, it may also appear followed
  by から in place of で.のうちis far less common than のなか when specifying 'amongst', due to this, のなか will
  be the preferred (more natural) option in speech. Additionally, although coming from内, the kanji form
  is far less common than plain hiragana.
examples:
  - japanese: この会社のうちでもっとも偉い人は田中さんです。
    english: Among everyone in this company, Tanaka-san is the most important.
  - japanese: ここにいる５人のうちで一番給料が高いのは鈴木さんです。
    english: Among the 5 people that are present here, Suzuki-san has the highest salary.
  - japanese: 村上監督が監督した映画のうちで、一番好きな映画はどれですか。
    english: Among the movies that Murakami has directed, which is your favorite movie?
  - japanese: ここにある釣竿、10本のうちの４本は海釣り用だ。
    english: 4 of the 10 fishing rods that are here are for saltwater fishing.
  - japanese: 学校の科目全てのうちから、一番好きな科目を教えてください。
    english: Out of all of the school subjects, what is your favorite subject?
  - japanese: ここにある100枚のうちから1枚引いてください。
    english: Please draw one of the 100 cards here.
  - japanese: テレビ番組：「そのことにより、アルベルト・アインシュタインは近代科学者のうちで一番有名な人物になりました。」
    english: 'TV program: ''Due to that, Albert Einstein became the most famous among modern scientists.''
      (of the)'
  - japanese: 野球をする子供についての記事：「調べた８５４人の子供のうち１７％の子供が、肘の具合がとても悪いことがわかりました。」
    english: 'Article about children playing baseball: ''17% of the 854 children studied showed elbows
      in very poor health.'' (among)'
  - japanese: 記事：「１９５国のうちで一番狭いのはバチカンだ。」
    english: 'Article: ''Of the 195 countries, Vatican City is the smallest.'' (among)'
  - japanese: 「一万人のうち１人ぐらいが成功できるそうだ。」
    english: '''It is said that about one in ten thousand people are able to achieve success.'' (of the・among)'
  - japanese: この学校には10名の外国人留学生がいるが、うち６名はアジアからの学生だ。
    english: There are ten foreign exchange students in this school and six of them are from Asia.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/-のうち-で
false_friends:
  - term: ～は～の一つだ
    meaning: 〜 is one of (many) 〜
    kind: synonym
  - term: 同士
    meaning: Fellow, With each other, Mutually, Between, Among, Together, With
    kind: synonym
  - term: のなかで
    meaning: In, Among, Within
    kind: synonym
  - term: のなかで～がいちばん～
    meaning: Out of ~, ~ is the best/most ~
    kind: synonym
