grammar_point: そうだ
jlpt: N3
meaning: I heard that, It is said that
meaning_warning: Do not confuse with the  form ofそうused with word stems.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Theauxiliary verbそうだ has two primary functions in Japanese. It can convey one of the following
  things:Hearsay:伝聞- Highlighting things that have been heard from other people.Appearance:様態- Highlighting
  the way that things 'appear', or 'seem'.Theappearancenuance is covered in another lesson, so we will
  focus onhearsayin this grammar point. When used to repeat statements that have been heard from other
  people/sources, そうだ (or そうです) will be paired with the plain form of a verb orい-Adjective, or a noun/な-Adjectivefollowed
  byだ.そうだalways implies that the speaker is not 100% certain about the validity of the information that
  they are conveying. Due to this, it does not sound as confident as other expressions, likeようだ.CautionIn
  order to avoid confusion between theそうだthat is used for repeating information, and theそうだthat is used
  for making observations, the following differences will need to be memorized.Verbs -降るそうだ - Unaltered
  verb, そうだ that is repeating information.降りそうだ -conjunctive form, そうだ that is used for making observations.い-Adjectives-寒いそうだ
  - Unaltered adjective, そうだ that is repeating information.寒そうだ - い removed, そうだ that is used for making
  observations.Nouns andな-Adjectives-綺麗だそうだ - だ  is used before そうだ. This is repeating information.綺麗そうだ
  - No だ between theな-Adjectiveand そうだ. This is making an observation.
examples:
  - japanese: この種類の鳥はよく鳴くそうだ。
    english: I heard that this bird chirps a lot.
  - japanese: 次の患者さんは酷い事故にあったそうです。
    english: I heard that the next patient was in a bad accident.
  - japanese: あそこから見る夕日は綺麗だそうです。
    english: I heard that the sunset that you can see from there is beautiful.
  - japanese: 先輩は明日も仕事だそうだ。
    english: I heard that senpai will be working tomorrow.
  - japanese: トムの彼女は女優だそうだ。
    english: I heard that Tom's girlfriend is an actress.
  - japanese: 来週から気温が下がるそうだ。
    english: I heard that from next week the temperature is going to drop.
  - japanese: あの方は親切だそうです。
    english: I heard that that person is kind.
  - japanese: 今晩雨が降るそうだ。
    english: I heard it will rain tonight.
  - japanese: あの人は怒ったら怖いが、普段は優しいそうだ。
    english: That person is scary when he/she gets angry, but I heard that he/she is usually kind.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/そうだ
false_friends:
  - term: ようだ
    meaning: It seems that, It appears that, It looks like
    kind: synonym
  - term: とか
    meaning: I heard that… something like, They said ... or something
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ①
    meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
    kind: synonym
  - term: ときいた
    meaning: I heard that
    kind: synonym
  - term: といわれている
    meaning: It is said that, Is known as
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということだ
    meaning: I heard that, Rumor has it that, It is said that, It means that
    kind: synonym
  - term: んだって
    meaning: I heard that, He or She said that
    kind: synonym
