grammar_point: るところだ
jlpt: N4
meaning: Just finished doing, Was just doing
meaning_warning: In this use, ところ means stage/level/situation
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: The nounところ(sometimes shortened toとこ) is often used to describe the 'place' or 'situation' in
  which something happens. The primary determining factor for the nuance ofところ, is the tense of the verb
  it follows. When it is in the non-past form,ところmeans 'about to (A)', or 'on the verge of (A)'.CautionWhen
  the kanji form of所is used, it is often referring to an actual physical location, rather than a situation/standpoint.
  However, this is something that native speakers will sometimes mistake. Therefore, seeing the kanji
  form, and the hiragana form, are both relatively common.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は手紙を書くところだ。
    english: He is about to write a letter.
  - japanese: 今から友達と会うところです。
    english: I'm about to meet my friend.
  - japanese: いまの所...
    english: This current place…
  - japanese: いまのところ...
    english: This current situation…
  - japanese: 今から帰るところです。
    english: I am just about to go home.
  - japanese: 友達が話し手を待っている時、電話：「家から出るところだから、もうすぐ着くよ。」
    english: 'When a friend is waiting on the speaker, phone call: ''I am about to leave home, so I will
      be there soon.'''
  - japanese: ちょうど出かけるところだ。
    english: I am about to leave right now.
  - japanese: 宿題をするところで、友達から電話が入った。
    english: Just when I was about to do my homework I got a call from a friend.
  - japanese: パソコンの電源を切るところで、あの音を聞いた。
    english: Just as I was about to turn off my computer, I heard that sound.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/るところだ
false_friends:
  - term: ところだった ①
    meaning: Almost, Nearly, About to, On the verge of
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb[volitional]とする
    meaning: Try to, Attempt to, To be about to
    kind: synonym
  - term: かけ
    meaning: Half-, Not yet finished, About to, Begin to
    kind: synonym
  - term: たところだ
    meaning: Just finished doing, Was just doing
    kind: synonym
