grammar_point: お～になる
jlpt: N4
meaning: To do (Honorific)
meaning_warning: Remember not to use honorific language when speaking about yourself and your actions!
details:
  Register: Polite
  使用域: 敬語
writeup: お～になる(orご～になる) is anhonorific languageexpression which is used to pay respect to the actions
  of the person that is being spoken to/another person (never the speaker). In this expression,になるis used
  in exactly the same way thatするwould be, except that it will be attached to the ます stem of the verb that
  it is referring to.The primary difference between お and ご, is that お will be used with words/readings
  of Japanese origin (kun-yomi), and ご will be used with words/readings of Chinese origin (on-yomi). In
  fact, お and ご are both represented by the same kanji. For this kanji,御is one of the kun-yomi, and御is
  one of the on-yomi.Fun FactSome verbs, like いでる, are used almost exclusively withhonorific language.
  おいでになる (theお～になるform of いでる) is an example of this, and can mean 'to come', 'to go', or 'to be'. This
  is due to the perspective of the speaker when usinghonorific language, and something that we will discuss
  in more detail later.
examples:
  - japanese: お客様がお見えになるのは3時頃です。
    english: The time that the customers will come will be around 3 o'clock.
  - japanese: 皆様、お立ちになってください。
    english: We request that everyone stand up.
  - japanese: この資料がご参考になれば幸いです。
    english: It would bring me great happiness if this document could be a useful reference for you.
  - japanese: 部長はどういう番組をご覧になるのですか？
    english: Boss, what kind of TV shows do you watch?
  - japanese: 先生はお帰りになりました。
    english: The teacher has gone home.
  - japanese: お取りになった切符を忘れないでください。
    english: Please do not forget the ticket you took.
  - japanese: ハリーポッターをお読みになりましたか。
    english: Did you read Harry Potter?
  - japanese: 父上はもうお帰りになったんですね。
    english: Father has already gone home, hasn't he.
  - japanese: 歯医者がお見えになるのは3時です。
    english: The dentist will arrive at 3 o'clock.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/お-になる
false_friends:
  - term: いらっしゃる
    meaning: To be (Honorific), To come (Honorific), To go (Honorific)
    kind: synonym
  - term: なさる
    meaning: To do (Honorific)
    kind: synonym
