grammar_point: つい
jlpt: N3
meaning: Accidentally, Unconsciously, Against one's better judgement
meaning_warning: Usually ends with てしまう
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Appearing most frequently at the beginning of sentences,ついis anadverbthat may be translated as
  'accidentally', 'unconsciously', 'absentmindedly', or 'against one's better judgment'.ついwill often be
  paired with statements that useてしまう, to emphasize that something was unintentional.Fun FactAlthough
  'accidentally' is the most common meaning ofつい, it actually may be used to convey three different nuances.
  These are as follows:はからず - Something that is uncalculated.思わず - Something that is not thought about.距離がわずかなさま
  - A small gap/interval.In each of these meanings,ついkeeps a sense of time being the most important factor.
  Due to this,ついwill give the impression that whatever resulted in the 'accidental' action, will be something
  that happened momentarily. This is very close to the meaning of 'lapse' in English. 'a lapse in time',
  'a lapse in judgment', 'a lapse in forethought'.
examples:
  - japanese: ごめんタケシ君のクッキーが目の前にあったからつい食べてしまった。
    english: Sorry Takeshi-kun, your cookie was right in front of me, so I absentmindedly ate it.
  - japanese: 先生に怒られると、つい笑っちゃうんだよね。
    english: When I am being scolded by the teacher, I unconsciously laugh.
  - japanese: 運転中に携帯を使ったらだめなのは分かっているんだけど、メールが来るとつい携帯を見ちゃう。
    english: I know that I shouldn't use my phone while driving, but when I get a text I unconsciously
      look at my phone.
  - japanese: 早く起きて準備をしても、つい遅れてしまう。
    english: Even if I wake up early to get ready, I'll be late due to a lapse of time.
  - japanese: 電車が遅れると、ついイライラしてしまう。
    english: When the train is late, I'll get angry due to a lapse in judgment.
  - japanese: お腹が空いていなくても、目の前に食べ物があるとつい食べてしまう。
    english: Even if I am not hungry, if there is food in front of me, I will eat it due to a lapse of
      forethought.
  - japanese: ダイエット中なのに、ついアイスクリームを食べてしまう。
    english: Against my better judgment, I eat ice cream while on a diet.
  - japanese: 笑ってはいけないのに、つい笑ってしまうことになる。
    english: Since I am not supposed to laugh, it feels like I might accidentally laugh.
  - japanese: 運転中、ついよそ見をしてしまう。
    english: While driving, I become unconsciously inattentive.
  - japanese: 「つい食べ過ぎてしまう」なんて言い訳だ。
    english: 'Saying things like: ''I unconsciously eat too much'' is just an excuse.'
  - japanese: 仕事中でもついスマホをいじってしまう。
    english: I always find myself unconsciously fiddling with my smartphone while I am working.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/つい
false_friends:
  - term: いつの間にか
    meaning: Suddenly, Unnoticed, Without noticing, Too soon
    kind: synonym
  - term: てしまう・ちゃう
    meaning: To do something by accident, To finish completely・totally, Unfortunately
    kind: synonym
