grammar_point: 点
jlpt: N3
meaning: Aspect, Respect, Point, Way, In terms of, In that, From the point of view
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 点is a kanji that is regularly used to express a specific 'point', 'spot', 'aspect', or something
  similar. When attached to the end of theattributive formof another word, it will highlight that word
  as a point of interest within the sentence. This is regularly translated as 'from the aspect of (A)',
  'in respect to (A)', 'in terms of (A)', and other similar phrases that simply draw attention to something.To
  use点, attach it to theattributive formof another word, a noun followed by の, or a phrase followed by
  という. In all cases,点must be followed by thecase marking particleで.Sometimes, で (as 'with' or 'at') may
  be replaced with expressions such asについて'in relation to (A)', or からいうと 'speaking from (A)'. So long
  as the grammar structure that accompanies点is also used to highlight something specific (and can be paired
  with a noun), it will sound natural.
examples:
  - japanese: 分からない点でお困りでしたら、こちらまでお電話をください。
    english: Please call here if you have any trouble with parts that are hard to understand.
  - japanese: 漢字の一番難しい点は、読み方が沢山あることです。
    english: The most difficult aspect of kanji is that there are many ways to read them.
  - japanese: アプリは使いやすさと便利さが一番重要な点で、見た目などはあまり綺麗じゃなくてもいい。
    english: Ease of use and convenience are the most important aspects of an app, so it is okay if it
      doesn't look too pretty.
  - japanese: イギリスの食文化はいくつかの点でスペインの食文化と違う。
    english: Food culture of England and Spain is different in several aspects.
  - japanese: 10万人のユーザーが居るという点では凄いと思う。
    english: In terms of having 100,000 users, I think it is amazing.
  - japanese: 分からない点について質問はありますか？
    english: Do you have any questions in regards to something you don't understand?
  - japanese: 以上の点から言うと、来月までにオープンすることは不可能という事ですね。
    english: Based on the points mentioned above, this means that it is impossible to start business by
      next month, right?
  - japanese: 日本語にひらがなとカタカナと漢字があるという点から考えると、中国語は大分違う。
    english: Japanese is very different from Chinese in that Japanese has hiragana, katakana, and kanji.
  - japanese: 何らかのアクションが必要であるという点で総株主は認めた。
    english: All shareholders agreed on the point that some action is needed.
  - japanese: いくつかの点で韓国語やトルコ語は日本語に似ている。
    english: In some respects, Korean and Turkish are similar to Japanese.
  - japanese: 彼はちょっと忘れっぽいという点で彼の父と同じだね。
    english: In terms of being a bit forgetful he is just like his father, right?
  - japanese: 英語はあらゆる点で日本語と違っている。
    english: English differs from Japanese in all respects. (all points)
  - japanese: 日本語は、文章の最後のポジションに動詞があるという点で、ユニークである。
    english: Japanese is unique in that the verb is in the last position of a sentence.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/点
false_friends:
  - term: ことから
    meaning: From the fact that
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしたら
    meaning: From the point of view of
    kind: synonym
