grammar_point: Causative-Passive
jlpt: N4
meaning: Verbs (Causative-passive voice), To be made to do something, To be forced to do
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When theauxiliary verbせる(orさせる) 'to make/let do' is combined with theauxiliary verbられる'to be
  the receiver of', it creates the causative-passive form of verbs in Japanese. These sentences will be
  from the perspective of the person who has 'been made to do' something, and are very often negative
  (against the will of the speaker).First, verbs must be conjugated in the same way that they would be
  withせる, orさせる. After that simply remove the る, and then addられる. This will create the verb formさせられる(linked
  withる-Verbs), orせられる(linked withう-Verbs).As with the causative form,するand来るhave special conjugation
  rules.するwill be replaced completely byさせられる, while来るwill become来させられる.CautionUnlike with causative verbs,
  where the actual doer of a sentence (marked withが) is considered to be the person who 'caused' the action,られるreverses
  the perspective. This makes the doer (marked withが) the person who is being 'forced' to do something.
  When the person that is 'causing' the action appears in a causative-passive sentence, they will be marked
  withに.Cautionれるmay not be used in place ofられるin causative-passive sentences. This is becauseせるandさせるboth
  have せ (an え sound kana) at the point where they will connect withられる. This is a rule for all verbs
  with an え sound kana at their conjugation point (excluding the 'potential' use ofれるandられる).
examples:
  - japanese: おばあちゃんの家に行くとお腹がいっぱいでもいっぱい食べさせられる。
    english: When I go to my grandma's house, she makes me eat a lot, even if I am full.
  - japanese: そんな事させられるとは思わなかった。
    english: I didn't think that I would be forced to do something like that.
  - japanese: 先輩に色んなお酒を飲ませられたから頭が痛い。
    english: Because my senpai made me drink all sorts of alcohol, my head hurts.
  - japanese: 友達に冷たい水を浴びさせられるのが嫌いだ。
    english: I don't like it when my friend douses me with cold water.
  - japanese: 上司に力仕事をさせられる。
    english: My boss forces me to do physical labor.
  - japanese: 友達に知らないバンドのコンサートに連れてこさせられる。
    english: My friend forced me to go to the concert of a band that I do not know.
  - japanese: 子供の頃は兄が勉強をさせられていた。
    english: When we were still kids, my older brother was forced to study.
  - japanese: 子供の頃は兄に勉強をさせられていた。
    english: When we were still children, my older brother forced me to study.
  - japanese: お腹がいっぱいなのに、ケーキを食べさせられた。
    english: I was forced to eat the cake even though I was full.
  - japanese: 私は兄に宿題をさせられた。
    english: I was forced to do homework by my older brother.
  - japanese: どんなことをさせられたの？
    english: What kind of things were you forced to do?
  - japanese: 嫌なことをさせられた。
    english: I was made to do awful things.
  - japanese: あまり見たくない動画を見させられたのです。
    english: I was forced to watch a video I didn't really want to watch.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/causative-passive
false_friends:
  - term: Verb［れる・られる］
    meaning: Was done to ~ by ~, Done without consent, Done to one's dismay
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb［せる・させる］
    meaning: To make/let/have (somebody do something)
    kind: synonym
