grammar_point: を余儀なくさせる
jlpt: N1
meaning: Force to, To compel, Make unavoidable
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Like を余儀なくされる, a formal grammar pattern that is usually translated as ‘to be forced to (A)’,を余儀なくさせるhas
  the same base, but uses the causativeauxiliary verbさせる ‘to make do’, in place of the passive される ‘to
  have done to one’.Its component parts are theadverbial particleを, the noun余儀‘another method’, theconjunctive
  formof the い-Adjective ない, なく, and the causative form of する, させる. In this way, it literally means ‘to
  not give another way than to (A)’.を余儀なくさせるwill be seen following an (A) noun, where (A) is the thing
  that is unavoidable.Unlike を余儀なくされる, in most cases the (A) subject of sentences that useを余儀なくさせるwill
  be non-human cause. However, there are exceptions to this.Fun FactDespite余儀and ない being separate words,余儀なく
  is often thought of simply as a single word that means ‘unavoidably’, or ‘inevitably’.
examples:
  - japanese: 外出自粛要請が、飲食店の閉店を余儀なくさせた。
    english: The request of not going outside, stores were forced to close.
  - japanese: 地元住民からの反対の声が、ショッピングモールの建設の中止余儀なくさせた。
    english: The voices of opposition from the residents, they were forced to cancel the construction
      of the shopping mall.
  - japanese: 運転手の不注意が、入院余儀なくさせた。
    english: The carelessness of the driver, forced them to get hospitalized.
  - japanese: 地球温暖化が、サンタクロースに北極点から移転することを余儀なくさせた。
    english: Global warming forced Santa Claus to relocate away from the North Pole.
  - japanese: パンデミックは店や学校の閉鎖を余儀なくさせた。
    english: The pandemic forced stores and schools to close.
  - japanese: 大洪水は都市からの撤退を余儀なくさせた。
    english: The major flood forced people to withdraw from the city.
  - japanese: 70年代のエネルギー危機は政府にガソリン以外の代替エネルギーを探すことを余儀なくさせた。
    english: The energy crisis of the 1970s forced the government to look for alternative energy sources,
      other than gasoline.
  - japanese: バブル崩壊が彼に会社の株式の売却を余儀なくさせた。
    english: The economic bubble burst forced him to sell his shares in the company.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/を余儀なくさせる
false_friends: []
