grammar_point: それなら
jlpt: N2
meaning: Then, If that's the case
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Acting as aconjunction,それならis a structure used for highlighting that if the previous statement
  is the case, then (B) will probably also be true, or will need to be considered.それならmay be interpreted
  as 'if that's the case, then (B)'.それならis most often used when replying to some statement that the speaker
  has just heard from another person. In these cases, it will come before some sort of guess, suggestion,
  or consideration about what the speaker has just heard.だったら and それだったら may also be seen, and carry the
  same meaning.
examples:
  - japanese: 駅の近くにあるスーパーに行くの？それならついでに私を駅まで送ってくれない？
    english: You're going to the supermarket near the station? If that's the case, can you drop me off
      at the station?
  - japanese: カメラの画質がいいスマホをお探しなんですか？それならこのスマホをお勧めします。
    english: You are looking for a smartphone with a good camera? If that's the case, I recommend this
      one.
  - japanese: それなら彼でもできるようだ。
    english: If that's the case, it seems like even he will be able to do it.
  - japanese: それなら早く警察に電話したほうがいいよ！
    english: If that's the case, you should call the cops as soon as possible.
  - japanese: それなら先生に聞いたほうがいいと思います。
    english: If that's the case, you should ask the teacher.
  - japanese: 一人で食べに行くの？だったら僕も一緒に行ってもいい？
    english: You're going to go eat alone? If that's the case, can I come with you?
  - japanese: 田中君もコストコに行くの？それだったら一緒に行こうよ。そのほうがガソリン代も節約できるし。
    english: Tanaka-kun, are you also going to Costco? If that's the case, let's go together. That way,
      we can save money on gas.
  - japanese: 田中：「彼女はとても優秀な秘書です。」山田：「それなら、この仕事は彼女に任せましょう。」
    english: 'Tanaka: ''She is an excellent secretary.'' Yamada: ''If that is the case, let''s entrust
      this job to her.'''
  - japanese: 井上さん：「あなたはゲームすると愚痴っぽくなって困る。」上条さん：「それなら、そうと言ってくれればいいのに。」
    english: 'Inoue-san: ''When you game you become irritable and I don''t know what to do.'' Kamijo-san:
      ''If that is the case, you should do me the favor of telling me that.'''
  - japanese: 土屋：「今日、ちょっと体調が悪いんだよね。」水口：「それなら、早く寝た方がいいよ。」
    english: 'Tsuchiya: ''Today I am feeling a little under the weather.''  Mizuguchi: ''If that is the
      case, you should go to bed early!'
  - japanese: 小林さん：「シフトがあまりにも不規則だ。」河村さん：「それなら以前の仕事の方がまだいいかもしれない。」
    english: 'Kobayashi-san: ''The shifts are excessively irregular.'' Kawamura-san: ''If that''s the
      case, then your previous job would probably be better.'''
  - japanese: 遠藤さん：「アプリをもっと使いやすくしました。」土井さん：「それなら普及すると思います。」
    english: 'Endo-san: ''They made the application easier to use.'' Doi-san: ''If that is the case, I
      think it will spread.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/それなら
false_friends: []
