grammar_point: ので
jlpt: N5
meaning: Because, So, Since, The reason being
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Conjunctive Particle
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 助詞
  単語の種類: 接続助詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ので is a Japanese grammar structure called a conjunction particle. This means that it connects
  two parts of a sentence 'logically'. The connection that ので makes between (A), and (B), is similar to
  から , meaning that it is often translated as 'because', or 'since'.When used after な-Adjectives or nouns,
  な must precede ので .When used as 'since', ので puts emphasis on the sentence as a whole, or on the effects
  caused. It then examines those reasons objectively (in a way that is based on facts, rather than feelings
  or opinions). から tends to be more subjective, and can sound much more vague when used as 'because'.We
  can see here that から is not quite as strong as ので . This relates back to the base meaning of から being
  ' from ', rather than ' because '.Cautionので can sometimes be seen as んで , which is a more casual variation.
  Also, unlike many grammar points that connect to verbs, ので may be used with the ます form. This is something
  that is unique to conjunction particles.
examples:
  - japanese: 今テストがあるんで、後で電話します。
    english: Because I have a test now, I will call you later.
  - japanese: 明日はお客が来ますので、掃除をします。
    english: Since a guest is coming tomorrow, I am going to clean.
  - japanese: 私は寿司が好きではないので、食べない。
    english: I don't like sushi, so I don't eat it.
  - japanese: 今日は時間がないので、明日に漢字を教えます。
    english: Because we don't have time today, I will teach you kanji tomorrow.
  - japanese: 今日は先生が休みなので、授業がなくなった。
    english: Since the teacher has the day off today, classes were cancelled.
  - japanese: 土曜日なので、旅行に行きたい。
    english: Because it is Saturday, I want to go on a trip.
  - japanese: 今日は一月二十日なので、彼の誕生日です。
    english: Since today is January 20th, it is his birthday.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ので
false_friends:
  - term: から (because)
    meaning: Because, Since
    kind: synonym
  - term: なぜなら〜から
    meaning: Because, The reason is, That is because
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものだから
    meaning: Because, The reason is
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものですから・もので
    meaning: Because, My excuse is, My explanation is
    kind: synonym
  - term: もの・もん
    meaning: Because, Cause
    kind: synonym
  - term: し～し
    meaning: And, Giving reasons
    kind: synonym
