grammar_point: をおいてほかに〜ない
jlpt: N1
meaning: No...but, Nothing else but, None other than
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: を措いてis a grammar pattern that expresses something similar to 'none other than (A)', or 'nothing
  else but (A)'.を措いてis a combination of theadverbial particleを, and the て-form of the う-Verb措く 'to set
  aside'. In this way, the literal meaning is similar to English phrases like 'setting aside (A), (B)',
  where (B) will be a broad statement about something that cannot be fulfilled by anything but (A).を措いてwill
  follow nouns or noun phrases, and frequently have他にない directly after it, emphasizing the point that
  'there is no other'.を措いてtends to only be used when the speaker positively evaluates (A), and is giving
  it praise in saying that nothing else can compare to it.Fun FactAs this grammar point regularly appears
  in hiragana, it may be helpful to remember that this uses措く 'to set aside', rather than 置く 'to place'.
  It may be easy to confuse these meanings, as they are very similar, and are classified as同訓異字. These
  are words that have the same kun-yomi reading, and also have a similar meaning. There are hundreds of
  examples of these in the language, so memorizing words with the same readings will help in identifying
  the meaning of new kanji at a later stage.
examples:
  - japanese: こんなに人類学に詳しい人は高橋教授をおいてほかにいない。
    english: No one knows anthropology better than Professor Takahashi.
  - japanese: 最初のライブは、大阪をおいてほかにない。
    english: The first concert will be held in none other than Osaka.
  - japanese: 日本語の文法を習いたいなら、文プロをおいてほかにない。
    english: If you want to learn Japanese grammar, there is none other than Bunpro.
  - japanese: 社長は副社長に言う：「私は引退しようと思う。次期社長は君を措いて他にふさわしい人は思い浮かばない。」
    english: 'The company president speaks to the vice president: ''I am planning to retire. No one but
      you comes to my mind as a suitable successor.'''
  - japanese: 記事：「日本人監督といえば、現代の映画撮影技術に最も大きな影響を与えたのは、もちろん黒沢明を措いて他にいない。」
    english: 'Article: ''When I mention Japanese directors, the one that has the greatest influence on
      modern cinematography is of course none other than Akira Kurosawa.'''
  - japanese: 探偵は容疑者に言う：「とぼけないでください。これほど事件について知っているのは犯人自身を措いて他にいないでしょう。」
    english: 'Detective speaking to the suspect: ''Don''t play dumb. No one but the murderer himself knows
      this much about the murder.'''
  - japanese: 日本語の勉強を始めたばかりの初心者の方におすすめするアプリを一つあげるとするなら、「文プロ」を措いて他にありません。
    english: If I were to mention an app that I would recommend for beginners that have just started learning
      Japanese then it would be none other than 'Bunpro.'
  - japanese: 友達との話、こまり：「東京で観光するつもりよ。」ほたる：「東京で観光するなら東京タワーを措いて他にないと思うの。」
    english: 'Chat between friends, Komari: ''I plan to go to sightseeing in Tokyo.''Hotaru: ''If you
      are going sightseeing in Tokyo, then I can think of nothing but Tokyo Tower.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/をおいてほかに-ない
false_friends:
  - term: しか～ない
    meaning: There's only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: いがい
    meaning: Except・besides, Other than, With the exception of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ほかに(も)・ほか(に)は
    meaning: Other, Another, Any other, Anything else, As well as, Besides, In addition
    kind: synonym
