grammar_point: 未だに
jlpt: N2
meaning: Still, Not yet, Even now
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Although stemming from the same kanji, まだ 'still' will almost always be read as未だ 'still' when
  appearing in its kanji form. When combined with に, like まだ,未だ will indicate that something is 'still
  (A)', or 'not yet (A)', depending on whether the verb it is paired with is negated or not.As未だにwill
  be used adverbially, it will mostly appear at the beginning of sentences.Compared toまだ,未だにis more formal,
  and will often imply that something has been continuing for a much longer period of time. This is similar
  to adding the wordずっとto a standard sentence.
examples:
  - japanese: スマホが普及している中、未だにガラケーを使っている人がいる。
    english: While smartphones are becoming more and more popular, there are people who still use flip
      phones.
  - japanese: 私が子供の頃に巻き込まれた事故のことは未だに覚えている。
    english: I still remember the accident that I was involved in when I was a child.
  - japanese: 部長は人事に注意されて２ヶ月も経つのに、彼の態度は未だに変わらない。
    english: It's been two months since the director was warned by HR and his attitude still hasn't changed.
  - japanese: 去年行方不明になった少女は未だに発見されていない。
    english: The girl who went missing last year has still not been found.
  - japanese: 小学生の頃、高橋くんにいじめられたことはまだ根に持っている。
    english: I am still holding a grudge over the fact that I was bullied by Takahashi-kun when I was
      in elementary school.
  - japanese: 小学生の頃、高橋くんにいじめられたことは未だに根に持っている。
    english: I am still holding a grudge over the fact that I was bullied by Takahashi-kun when I was
      in elementary school.
  - japanese: 記事：「政府は既に石油の税金を減らしたにも関わらず、価格は未だに変わっていない。」
    english: 'Article: ''Even though the government has already reduced taxes on oil, the price has not
      yet changed.'' (still・even now)'
  - japanese: 技術関係サイト上のコメント：「何年も経ったというのにAiKlaudの無料ストレージ容量は未だに5GBのままです。」
    english: 'Comment on a website about technology: ''Even though it has been years, AiKlaud''s free
      storage capacity is still 5GB.'' (not yet・even now)'
  - japanese: 小説、語り手：「5年間も一緒に住んでいるにも関わらず、ジェイクはフィンの性格を未だに完全に把握できていなかった。」
    english: 'Novel, narrator: ''Even though they had been living together for 5 years, even now Jake
      wasn''t able to completely grasp Finn''s character.'''
  - japanese: 歴史書：「未だにクロサキマサキ氏の死に関して不明な点が多い。」
    english: 'History book: ''There are still many unknowns concerning the death of Masaki Kurosaki.''
      (not yet・even now)'
  - japanese: 記事：「ディーゼルエンジンに対しての、新しい法律が成立した。しかしながら大都市大気汚染の問題は未だに残っている。」
    english: 'Article: ''A new law against diesel engines has been established. However, pollution in
      major cities is still a lingering problem.'' (not yet・even now)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/未だに
false_friends: []
