grammar_point: など
jlpt: N4
meaning: Such as, Things like, Etc., And so on
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: などis anadverbial particlethat is used to express that something is being presented as an example,
  but that other things in the same category also exist. In this way, it is regularly translated as 'such
  as', 'things like', or 'and so on'.などmay be used after nouns, to describe that (A) is being presented
  as an example from within a group. Alternatively,などcan be followed byの(B), to show that (A) is only
  one type of thing from the broader category, (B).などis regularly seen in its kanji form,等. This kanji
  itself has a similar meaning to 'etc' in English.Fun FactThe kanji for等is also used in the pluralizing
  suffix,ら. Due to this, we can see that this kanji is regularly utilized to highlight something that
  exists as part of a larger group.In the first sentence,などpresents (A) as being part of a larger group
  of similar things. This is exactly the same thing that happens in the second sentence withら.Fun Factなどis
  also sometimes written asなんか, and has an interchangeable meaning in many situations. However,なんかwill
  never use the kanji form of等.
examples:
  - japanese: この公園では石などを投げないでください。
    english: Do not throw rocks and so on in this park.
  - japanese: 彼はいつもルームメイトなどの悪口を言っています。
    english: He is always badmouthing people, like his roommates.
  - japanese: 鞄や靴等を川に捨ててはならない。
    english: You mustn't discard things such as bags and shoes into the river.
  - japanese: あいつ等本当にうるさいね。
    english: Those people are very noisy, don't you think.
  - japanese: イタリアやアメリカなどに行きたい。
    english: I want to go to places such as America and Italy. (etc. / and so on)
  - japanese: 宿題をしてから、ゲームなどをゆっくりする。
    english: After doing my homework, I relax with things like video games. (etc. / and so on)
  - japanese: フルーツはぶどうなどが好きです。
    english: As for fruits, I like grapes and such. (etc. / and so on)
  - japanese: 趣味などを教えてください。
    english: Please tell me things like your hobbies. (etc. / and so on)
  - japanese: 明日から、準備などをするつもりです。
    english: From tomorrow, I plan on doing things like preparing. (etc. / and so on)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/など
false_friends:
  - term: とか～とか
    meaning: Among other things, For example, Such as
    kind: synonym
  - term: といった
    meaning: Such as, Like, So much as
    kind: synonym
  - term: なんか・なんて
    meaning: Such as, Things like, Emphasis
    kind: synonym
