grammar_point: っぽい
jlpt: N3
meaning: -ish, -like, Characteristic of, Typical of, Tendency to
meaning_warning: Often has negative connotation.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: っぽい(occasionally also seen as ぽい) is asuffixthat may be attached to many different types of words,
  in order to create newい-Adjectives. In all cases,っぽいindicates something that is 'exhibiting characteristics
  of (A)'. This is most often in reference to the way (A) is acting, or the way (A) looks. In English,っぽいmay
  be translated as '(A)ish', '(A)like', or 'tendency to (A)'.っぽいquite often carries a negative connotation.Asっぽいcreatesい-Adjectivesfrom
  other words, it may be used with theconjunctive formof verbs, or the語幹(stem form) of any other word.CautionAsっぽいcreates
  newい-Adjectives,っぽいitself may be conjugated in exactly the same way as regularい-Adjectives.CautionThe
  fundamental meaning ofっぽいwill change depending on what type of word it is being used with. The general
  rules are as follows:Verb +っぽい- To have a tendency to do (A).Adjective +っぽい- To exhibit all the signs
  of being (A).Noun +っぽい- To obviously not be (A), although show signs of being (A).From this, we can
  see thatっぽいis generally based on the opinion of the speaker, rather than the innate qualities of what
  is being observed. Thus, with verbs, adjectives, and nouns, the speaker feels like (A) is in excess,
  compared to what would be expected. This 'being in excess of what is normal' in the opinion of the speaker
  is what creates the negative connotation.
examples:
  - japanese: 私は飽きっぽいから、何も続かない。
    english: Because I have a tendency to get sick of things, I can't continue with anything.
  - japanese: 白っぽいやつをください。
    english: Please give me the whiteish one.
  - japanese: タナカ君はファッション業界では有名っぽいよ！
    english: Apparently Tanaka-kun is popular in the fashion industry!
  - japanese: 今の話は嘘っぽいけど本当の話なの。
    english: The story I just told you sounds like a lie, but it is actually true.
  - japanese: 昔は紫っぽかったのに今はなぜか赤っぽい。
    english: Back in the day, it was purpleish, but now for some reason it is reddish.
  - japanese: この靴なんか安っぽくない？
    english: Don't these shoes look cheapish?
  - japanese: トムは記憶力がいいどころか、忘れっぽいよ。
    english: Let alone having a good memory, Tom is forgetful. (~ish)
  - japanese: このカバンは安っぽいけど、タグを見たら高かった。
    english: This bag looks cheap, but I looked at the tag and it was expensive. (~ish)
  - japanese: 唐揚げは油っぽくて、食べたいと思わない。
    english: I don't even think about wanting to eat deep-fried chicken because it looks too greasy. (~ish)
  - japanese: 彼は飽きっぽいから、趣味を始めてもすぐにやめてしまう。
    english: Because he has tendency to lose interest and give up, he quits soon after starting a new
      hobby. (~ish)
  - japanese: 寅さんは惚れっぽく、飽きっぽい。
    english: Tora-san has the tendency to fall in love, and also has the tendency to lose interest. (~ish)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/っぽい
false_friends:
  - term: らしい ②
    meaning: typical of, -ish・like, appropriate for, becoming of, befitting
    kind: synonym
  - term: 的
    meaning: ~ly・~like・~al, Typical
    kind: synonym
  - term: ふりをする
    meaning: To pretend, To act as if
    kind: synonym
  - term: がち
    meaning: Apt to do, Tend to do, Prone to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: ぎみ
    meaning: Looking, Feeling a little, Touch of, Tending to, Slightly
    kind: synonym
  - term: げ
    meaning: Seemingly, Giving appearance of, [Expresses emotions or feelings]
    kind: synonym
  - term: そう
    meaning: Look like, Appear, Seem, Have a feeling that
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ①
    meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
    kind: synonym
