grammar_point: めったに〜ない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Hardly, Rarely, Seldom
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: めったに～ない is an expression that may be translated as 'hardly', 'seldom', or 'rarely'. Originally,滅多is
  aな-Adjectivethat means 'thoughtless', or 'reckless'. Due to this, as anadverb,滅多に literally means 'thoughtlessly'
  or 'recklessly'.めったに～ないwill usually be paired with a verb in the negative form, or following a noun,
  and theadverbial particleは.CautionIt is far more common to seeめったにwritten without kanji, than with.
  However, both are used.Fun FactAsめったにoriginally means 'thoughtlessly', when appearing in a negative
  statement, the nuance becomes 'to not (A) thoughtlessly' (mindlessly, or aimlessly). This simply expresses
  that the speaker will not do (A) unintentionally, or (A) will not happen unless there is some special
  reason for it.
examples:
  - japanese: 大人になってから駄菓子屋にはめったに行かない。
    english: Ever since I became an adult. I hardly go to candy stores.
  - japanese: 親とは正月以外にはめったに会わない。
    english: Other than New Years, I hardly see my parents.
  - japanese: こんなチャンスはめったにないぞ！
    english: A chance like this is very rare.
  - japanese: パーティーに行くことはめったにない。
    english: I hardly do things like go to parties.
  - japanese: 私は何か大事なことが起きない限り、電話はめったに掛けない。
    english: Unless something big happens, I don't mindlessly make phone calls.
  - japanese: 家の誰かがテレビを見ていない限り、自分からはテレビをめったに見ない。
    english: Unless someone in my house is watching TV, I don't aimlessly watch TV on my own.
  - japanese: 父は滅多にテレビを見ない。
    english: My father rarely watches TV.
  - japanese: 彼女についての悪口を滅多に聞かない。
    english: I seldom hear bad things about her.
  - japanese: せっかく日本語を勉強したけど、滅多に話さないね。
    english: After going through all the trouble of studying Japanese, you hardly speak it. (seldom・rarely)
  - japanese: 彼は滅多に忘れないのに、今日はどうしたんだろう？
    english: He rarely forgets, I wonder what happened today?
  - japanese: 滅多に泣かない彼が泣いていた。
    english: He, who hardly cries, was crying. (seldom・rarely)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/めったに-ない
false_friends:
  - term: 陸に～ない
    meaning: Not well or properly, Not much or enough, Barely, Hardly
    kind: synonym
  - term: あまり～ない
    meaning: Not very, Not much, Not really, Hardly
    kind: synonym
  - term: ほとんど
    meaning: Almost all, Most, Hardly any, Few (Adverbial noun)
    kind: synonym
  - term: なかなか～ない
    meaning: Not really, Hardly, Not easily or readily, By no means, Far from
    kind: synonym
