grammar_point: また
jlpt: N4
meaning: And, Besides, Moreover, In addition
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: また, or又in its kanji form, is an expression which means 'again', 'additionally', 'also', or 'moreover'.
  This may seem confusing at first, but it may be easier to think ofまたas meaning 'repetition of (A)',
  where (A) is any particular course of action. This repetition is a bit different to English, in that
  it can express the same action, or an alternative option.またcan be used as anadverb, or as aconjunction.
  In this lesson, we will focus on its use as a conjunction.As with many other conjunctions in Japanese,
  a phrase/sentence can begin withまた, so long as that sentence expresses a complete thought.Due toまたbeing
  quite different to any single word that we have in English, let's try to make the meaning a bit clearer.
  Imagine that '(A) action always has (B) result'. However, the action which leads to the (B) result could
  be many different things. Because of this,またcan have the following meanings.The same (A) action is taken
  - Has the nuance of 'again', or 'moreover'.A different (A) action is taken - Has the nuance of 'also',
  and 'additionally'.
examples:
  - japanese: また遊ぼうね！
    english: Let's hang out again!
  - japanese: また行こうね！
    english: Let's go again!
  - japanese: またカンニングしたの？
    english: You cheated again?
  - japanese: 彼は宇宙飛行士であり、またアナウンサーでもある。
    english: He is an astronaut, and also an announcer!
  - japanese: また寝坊したの？
    english: You overslept again?
  - japanese: またその夢を見たい。
    english: I want to dream that dream again.
  - japanese: また、彼からチョコをもらった。
    english: Moreover, I received chocolate from him.
  - japanese: 私は、また旅行に行くつもりです。
    english: I intend to go on another trip. (again)
  - japanese: 彼は晩ご飯を食べてから、また勉強した。
    english: Once he ate dinner he studied again.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/また
false_friends:
  - term: 再び
    meaning: Again, Once more, A second time
    kind: synonym
  - term: 更に
    meaning: Even more or further, Again, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上に
    meaning: As well, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
  - term: それに
    meaning: And, Besides, Moreover, In addition
    kind: synonym
