grammar_point: らしい ①
jlpt: N4
meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Theauxiliary verbらしいis very similar to theauxiliary verbsそうだandようだ, in that it expresses something
  that the speaker 'thinks' is true. This use is known as推定(presumption) in Japanese. However, despite
  being a presumption/assumption,らしいusually sounds relatively confident.らしいis regularly translated as
  'it seems like (A)', or 'I heard that (A)'.To useらしい, attach it to end of any (non-polite) verb, adjective,
  or noun.In these examples,らしいindicates that the speaker has some reason to believe that (A) is true.
  This could be that they heard, saw, or read something, but are still not 100% sure whether their understanding
  is correct or not. In this way, it sounds very similar to 'it appears as though (A)' in English.CautionThere
  are 2 main forms ofらしいin Japanese. Theauxiliary verbusage mentioned above, and the形容詞の一部(auxiliary adjective),
  a type of adjective that must be attached to another word for it have have any meaning usage.らしいhas
  the meaning of something that is 'typical of (A)', when used as an auxiliary adjective.Thisい-Adjectiveuse
  ofらしいwill be covered more in our secondらしいlesson.
examples:
  - japanese: ねえ、聞いた？タケシ君がキヨミちゃんにプロポーズするらしいよ。
    english: Hey, did you hear? It seems that Takeshi-kun is proposing to Kiyomi-chan.
  - japanese: カシキさんの彼氏はカッコいいらしいよ。
    english: I heard that Kashiki-san's boyfriend is handsome.
  - japanese: タカギ先輩がさっき言っていた事は本当らしいですよ。
    english: Apparently the thing that Takagi senpai was talking about earlier is true.
  - japanese: あの人はフランス人らしいよ。
    english: I heard that person is French.
  - japanese: 今朝、新聞で読んだんだけど、明日から雪が降るらしいよ。
    english: I read this in the newspaper this morning, but it appears as though it is going to start
      snowing tomorrow.
  - japanese: あなたは本当に男らしいね。
    english: You are really manly, aren't you. (You exhibit the typical qualities of a man)
  - japanese: やっと11月らしい天気になったね。
    english: The weather is finally becoming November-like, don't you think? (Weather that is typical
      of November)
  - japanese: 彼はダイエットを続けるらしいです。
    english: He seems likely to continue his diet.
  - japanese: あなたの元彼女が婚約したらしいです。
    english: I heard that your ex-girlfriend got engaged.
  - japanese: あの人は会社の社長らしいよ。
    english: I heard that he is a president of a company.
  - japanese: 日本語を話せなくても、日本に行けるらしい。
    english: I heard that you can go to Japan even if you cannot speak Japanese. (It seems like you can)
  - japanese: 大統領がキューバに行くらしい。
    english: I heard that the president is going to Cuba. (It appears that he is going)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/らしい1
false_friends:
  - term: らしい ②
    meaning: typical of, -ish・like, appropriate for, becoming of, befitting
    kind: synonym
  - term: みたいに・みたいな
    meaning: Like, Similar to, Resembling
    kind: synonym
  - term: そう
    meaning: Look like, Appear, Seem, Have a feeling that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようだ
    meaning: It seems that, It appears that, It looks like
    kind: synonym
  - term: みたい
    meaning: Like, Similar to, Resembling
    kind: synonym
  - term: ときいた
    meaning: I heard that
    kind: synonym
  - term: にみえる
    meaning: To look, To seem, To appear
    kind: synonym
  - term: とみえる
    meaning: It seems that, It can be deduced, One can conclude that
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうだ
    meaning: I heard that, It is said that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということだ
    meaning: I heard that, Rumor has it that, It is said that, It means that
    kind: synonym
  - term: 的
    meaning: ~ly・~like・~al, Typical
    kind: synonym
  - term: んだって
    meaning: I heard that, He or She said that
    kind: synonym
