grammar_point: どころではない
jlpt: N2
meaning: This is not the time for…, Far from, Out of the question
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When the voiced form of ところ 'place', どころ appears in Japanese, it will very often be part of a
  set phrase expressing some kind of negative situation or evaluation.どころではないis no different, and highlights
  that it is 'far from (A)', or that '(A) is out of the question'. These translations appear when the
  actual situation is considered to be even more remarkable than the phrase thatどころではないis attached to.This
  grammar pattern will be seen at the end of phrases indicating some situation which is not ideal. Additionally,
  ではない may be replaced with じゃない in more casual settings.どころではないmay also sometimes be translated as 'it
  is not the time for (A)'. In sentences that use this interpretation, (A) is considered to be something
  that there is no allowance for due to there being far more important matters. This use will reflect
  the personal opinion of the speaker.
examples:
  - japanese: 出産は痛いどころではないらしい。
    english: They say childbirth is far from painful.
  - japanese: 締め切りが迫って来てるから、休憩を取るどころじゃない。
    english: The deadline is approaching, so taking a break is out of the question.
  - japanese: お母さんからお父さんが倒れたと連絡があったので、仕事どころではない。
    english: It is not the time for working, since I got a message from my mother telling me that my father
      collapsed.
  - japanese: 今は仕事が忙しいし、お金も全然ないから、結婚どころじゃない。
    english: Since I am busy with work and have no money, it is not the time to get married.
  - japanese: 仕事が忙しすぎて、年休を取るどころではない。
    english: I am so busy at work, taking time off is out of the question.
  - japanese: 大病を患っているんだから、仕事どころではない。
    english: Since I have become severely ill, this is not the time for work.
  - japanese: 今まで恋人も出来たことがないのに、結婚どころではない。
    english: Since I haven't even had a lover yet, getting married is out of the question.
  - japanese: 「早く美容室に行け」と言われても、今はそれどころではない。
    english: Even if you were told, 'Go to a beauty parlor right away!', now is not the time for that.
  - japanese: 休みの日はたくさん寝たい。レジャーどころではない。
    english: On my day off, I want to sleep a lot. Leisure activities are out of the question.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/どころではない
false_friends:
  - term: ものか
    meaning: Definitely not, Absolutely not, Impossible, Do you really think~?
    kind: synonym
  - term: どころか
    meaning: Far from, Anything but
    kind: synonym
