grammar_point: まい～のように
jlpt: N4
meaning: Almost every ~, Nearly every ~, On a ~ basis
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In a similar way toのように,まい～のようにstates that something is happening 'in the manner/way of (A)'.
  まい means 'every' (coming from the kanji毎), and will always be followed by (A). (A) being a word that
  expresses some kind of measurement (usually time).まい～のようにis often translated as 'almost every (A)',
  'nearly every (A)', or 'on an (A) basis'.Becauseよう(from the kanji様) usually expresses the 'manner' in
  which something is existing/happening, this phrase literally highlights that something occurs 'in the
  manner of every (A)', and is therefore up to the interpretation of the listener as to whether the speaker
  means 'every', or 'almost every'.CautionAlthoughみたいにandのようにare regularly interchangeable, that is not
  the case withまい～のように. This is becauseみたいだis originally an abbreviation of the more formal phraseを見たような,
  and therefore can sound unnatural when used to describe things that cannot be seen, like time.
examples:
  - japanese: 毎日のようにポテトチップス食べてるから太ってきた。
    english: Because I eat potato chips almost everyday, I am starting to gain weight.
  - japanese: 渋谷には毎週のように行っているよ。
    english: I go to Shibuya almost every week.
  - japanese: 彼は八月になると毎年のように平和記念資料館へ行く。
    english: When August comes, he goes to the peace memorial museum almost every year.
  - japanese: 彼女は彼に出会う前は、毎日のように高校をサボっていた。
    english: Before she met him, she used to skip school almost every day.
  - japanese: 彼はその後、故郷に 毎月のように帰った。
    english: After that, he returned to his hometown almost every month.
  - japanese: 日本では 毎年のように少なくとも１回は地震が起こる。
    english: There is at least 1 earthquake in Japan nearly every year.
  - japanese: 子供の頃、雨に濡れてひどい風邪を引いたので、出かけるときは毎回のように傘を持っていく。
    english: Since I caught a terrible cold after getting soaked when I was a kid, I take an umbrella
      with me almost every time I go out.
  - japanese: 彼は毎日のように砂糖を食べすぎたので、病気になった。
    english: He fell ill because he ate too much sugar nearly every single day.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/まい-のように
false_friends:
  - term: ごとに
    meaning: Each, Every
    kind: synonym
  - term: たびに
    meaning: Each time, Every time, Whenever
    kind: synonym
  - term: おきに
    meaning: Repeated at intervals, Every other, Every, At intervals of
    kind: synonym
  - term: につき
    meaning: Due to, On account of, Each or every
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように・ような
    meaning: As・like, Just like
    kind: synonym
