grammar_point: なかなか
jlpt: N3
meaning: Very, Quite, Considerably
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: なかなか(or中々in kanji) is anadverbin Japanese that is frequently translated as 'very', or 'considerably'.
  It is regularly paired directly with other adjectives, or before nouns (with の coming betweenなかなかand
  the noun).なかなかcan also sometimes have the nuance of being something that is軽視しがたい. This basically translates
  as 'difficult to dismiss', but is a bit closer to English expressions like 'nothing to scoff at', or
  'not to be taken lightly'.Fun Factなかなかhighlights that something is 'considerably/extremely (A)', or
  'far more (A) than expected'. If we imagine a dartboard, where the whole board shows the intensity level
  of a specific word, andなかなかrepresents the bullseye, this is basically the nuance. '(A) is the middle
  (bullseye) example of (B)'.Fun Factなかなか, coming from the kanji中meaning 'within', can be thought to mean
  the 'middle' or 'most' (A).
examples:
  - japanese: ここのラーメンは中々美味しいね。
    english: This ramen shop is pretty good.
  - japanese: ミムラさんもなかなか可愛いよ。
    english: Mimura-san is very cute.
  - japanese: あのシェフが作るパスタはなかなかの物だ。
    english: The pasta that the chef makes is very good.
  - japanese: 元カノはなかなかの美人でしたが、性格が悪かったので別れました。
    english: My ex-girlfriend was considerably beautiful, but her personality was bad, so I broke up with
      her.
  - japanese: なかなかの事をしてくれたな。こんな事をお客さんにどう説明したらいいんだ。
    english: You have done something that is difficult to dismiss, haven't you? How am I supposed to explain
      this to our client? (What you did cannot be taken lightly. How am I supposed to explain what has
      happened to our client?)
  - japanese: 先月始めたばかりなの？なかなか上手じゃないか。
    english: You just started last month? You are quite a lot better than I expected!
  - japanese: ここの会員になるのは中々難しい。
    english: Becoming a member here is considerably difficult.
  - japanese: 富士登山は中々大変です。
    english: Reaching the top of Mt. Fuji is quite grueling.
  - japanese: この子が描く絵は中々のものです。
    english: The paintings that this child paints are quite (extraordinary).
  - japanese: それは中々厳しい注文ですね。
    english: That is quite a harsh request.
  - japanese: この作品は中々の出来栄えですよ。
    english: This piece (of art) is quite good.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なかなか
false_friends:
  - term: なかなか～ない
    meaning: Not really, Hardly, Not easily or readily, By no means, Far from
    kind: antonym
  - term: あまり～ない
    meaning: Not very, Not much, Not really, Hardly
    kind: antonym
  - term: けっこう
    meaning: Quite, A lot, Fairly, Rather
    kind: synonym
  - term: あまりに
    meaning: So much...that, (Way) too...
    kind: synonym
  - term: あまり
    meaning: So much...that
    kind: synonym
  - term: のなかで
    meaning: In, Among, Within
    kind: synonym
