grammar_point: たて
jlpt: N3
meaning: Freshly ~ed, Just ~ed
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: たて, coming from the verb立てる 'to stand' is asuffixin Japanese that is often used after theconjunctive
  formof verbs. たて conveys that something has 'just been finished', or is 'freshly finished'.As asuffix,
  たて transforms verbs into nouns. This means that they may be followed by a (B) phrase, or followed directly
  by thecase marking particleの and a noun.Fun Factたて is asuffixthat is used to convey the moment in time
  directly after something has been finished, rather than the fact that it 'is' finished. Due to this,
  たて is most frequently used with verbs that indicate some sense of time based importance, where (A) will
  degrade in quality over time after completion.
examples:
  - japanese: ここにあるのは全部揚げたてですよ。
    english: Everything here is freshly fried.
  - japanese: 釣りたてだから新鮮だよ！
    english: It is just fished up, so it is fresh!
  - japanese: 私は出来立てのパンを食べるのが大好きです。
    english: I like to eat freshly baked bread.
  - japanese: 生まれたての赤ちゃんっておさるさんみたいじゃない？
    english: Don't newborn babies look like monkeys?
  - japanese: 取り立ての野菜で作るサラダは美味しい。
    english: Making salad with freshly picked vegetables is delicious.
  - japanese: この靴は濡れたてだから、乾かすのに少し時間がかかると思う。
    english: These shoes got freshly wet, so it will take some time to dry.
  - japanese: 釣り立ての魚を食べるのは最高！
    english: Eating freshly caught fish is the best!
  - japanese: このベンチはペンキ塗り立てのため、気を付けてください。
    english: This bench has been freshly painted, so please be careful.
  - japanese: この魚は焼き立てです。
    english: This fish has been freshly cooked.
  - japanese: 出来立てのお菓子を食べたのは初めてだ。
    english: It's my first time eating freshly made sweets.
  - japanese: この農場は毎日、産み立ての卵を出荷する。
    english: This farm is shipping freshly laid eggs every day.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たて
false_friends:
  - term: かけ
    meaning: Half-, Not yet finished, About to, Begin to
    kind: antonym
  - term: たところだ
    meaning: Just finished doing, Was just doing
    kind: synonym
  - term: たばかり
    meaning: Just did, Something just happened
    kind: synonym
