grammar_point: だけあって
jlpt: N2
meaning: Is only natural, …Being the case, Because, As might be expected
meaning_warning: Do not use with negative reasons/results!
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Like だけに,だけあってis a phrase that is used to show that something is 'only natural for (A)', or 'as
  might be expected of (A)'. This structure includes the particle だけ 'just', or 'only', and the て-form
  of the う-Verb ある 'to be'. In this way, the more literal meaning may be interpreted as 'just being (A),
  (B)', and implies that the innate trait or traits of (A) led to the expected result of (B).だけあってwill
  only be used when the expected result is something that is positive in relation to (A).Like most other
  grammar patterns that begin with だけ, this structure may be used with verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives
  followed by な, or nouns.Caution - Asだけあってemphasizes an innate or constant quality of (A), it will not
  be used for things that are not obvious, or have not yet happened. This means thatだけあってwill not appear
  in sentences discussing things that may happen in the future, and will also not often be utilized with
  phrases such as だろう, でしょう, かもしれない, or similar structures that express uncertainty.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は10年間日本に住んでいただけあって、日本語を日本人のように話せる。
    english: As one might expect, he can speak Japanese like a Japanese person because he lived in Japan
      for 10 years.
  - japanese: あのホテルは高いだけあって、サービスがとてもいい。
    english: As one might expect, that hotel has great service because it is expensive.
  - japanese: 浅草は有名なだけあって、平日でも観光客で賑わっている。
    english: As might be expected with how popular Asakusa is, it is crowded with tourists even on weekdays.
  - japanese: 田中先生は習字の先生だけあって、漢字を書くのが上手です。
    english: As expected, Tanaka-sensei is good at writing kanji because she is a calligraphy teacher.
  - japanese: 幼い頃からアイススケートを習っていただけあって、将来はオリンピック選手になるでしょう。
    english: As expected from someone who has been learning ice skating from a young age, she will probably
      be an Olympic athlete in the future.
  - japanese: 毎日一生懸命勉強しただけあって、彼は試験に合格するだろう。
    english: As expected, he studied hard everyday, and would probably do well on his exams. (Unnatural
      Japanese)
  - japanese: 頑張って勉強しただけあって、妹はいい大学に入学できた。
    english: As expected, my little sister studied hard, and got into a good college.
  - japanese: 揚げ物を控えただけあって、私は３キロも痩せた。
    english: As might be expected, I avoided eating fried food and I lost three kilograms.
  - japanese: 茶道を習っているだけあって、礼儀が正しい。
    english: As one might expect, since she is learning tea ceremony, she is polite.
  - japanese: あの二人は仲良しなだけあって、いつも一緒にいるよね。
    english: As might be expected with how close those two are, they are always together.
  - japanese: 専門家だけあって、彼はいつも中身の濃い提案をしてくれる。
    english: As might be expected from a specialist, he always gives us proposals with dense content.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だけあって
false_friends:
  - term: だけで
    meaning: Just by, Just with
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけに
    meaning: As might be expected, Because, All the more because, It's only natural
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけのことはある
    meaning: No wonder, Not surprising that, As expected
    kind: synonym
