grammar_point: 上に
jlpt: N2
meaning: As well, Besides, In addition to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 上にis a grammar pattern that functions as a slightly formal way of saying 'and' in Japanese. It
  shows that something is 'in addition to (A)', 'as well as (A)', or 'besides (A)'. Literally, it simply
  shows that 'on top of (A), (B)'.上にmay be used after that standard form of verbs and い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives
  followed byな上に, and nouns followed byの上に. Occasionally, the に may be dropped from this structure, without
  changing the meaning at all.When it comes to な-Adjectives and nouns, it is also common to seeである上にused
  as a conjugation pattern.Caution -上にmust always be used to highlight qualities of things that are equivalent
  to each other. For example, a good thing and another good thing, or a bad thing and another bad thing.
examples:
  - japanese: 私の犬は子供を見ると吠える上に噛みつこうとするので子供には近づけさせないようにさせています。
    english: In addition to barking, my dog tries to bite children when he sees them, so I try not to
      let him get close to them.
  - japanese: 家の近所にあるレストランはまずい上に、高いからいつも空いている。
    english: The restaurant near my house is always empty because in addition to having bad food, they
      are expensive.
  - japanese: 高橋くんは無礼な上に清潔感がないため、周りの人たちには避けられている。
    english: Takahashi-kun is rude as well as unhygienic, so he is avoided by the people around him.
  - japanese: 彼女は調理師免許の上に健康食アドバイザーの資格も持っているので、彼女が作る料理は健康的で美味しいです。
    english: In addition to having a chef's license, she also has qualification as a nutrition advisor,
      so the food she makes is healthy and delicious.
  - japanese: あそこの駅は不便である上に利用者が減っている為、来月の中旬に取り壊されるそうだ。
    english: I heard that the station over there is going to get torn down in the middle of next month
      because in addition to being inconvenient, it is losing users.
  - japanese: ケントさんは新聞記者である上にスーパーヒーローでもあった。
    english: Kent-san was a newspaper reporter as well as a superhero.
  - japanese: あの建築会社が建てる家は丈夫な上にお洒落なので、すごく人気があるらしい。
    english: Apparently that building company is very popular right now because the houses they build
      are durable as well as stylish. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 彼はハンサムな上に失礼だから、あまりモテない。
    english: He is not very popular because in addition to being handsome, he is rude. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: そのジムは安い上に、私の家から近い。
    english: As well as being cheap, that gym is close to my house. (on top of that)
  - japanese: あの店はリフォームした上に、メニューも変わったらしい。
    english: I heard that restaurant changed its menu, in addition to being remodeled. (on top of)
  - japanese: 今日の宿題は簡単な上に、少ない。
    english: In addition to being easy, today's homework load was light. (on top of that)
  - japanese: あの人の説明は、曖昧な上に不正確だ。
    english: That person's explanation was vague, as well as inaccurate. (on top of that)
  - japanese: 彼はお酒を飲むと、暴れる上に悪態をつくから手に負えない。
    english: If he drinks alcohol, in addition to being violent, he uses abusive language, so he is uncontrollable.
      (on top of that)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/上に
false_friends:
  - term: 上は
    meaning: Once, Since, Now that, As long as
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上
    meaning: From the standpoint of
    kind: synonym
  - term: また
    meaning: Also, As well, Moreover, Again, Additionally
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上で
    meaning: After, Upon
    kind: synonym
  - term: 更に
    meaning: Even more or further, Again, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: し～し
    meaning: And, Giving reasons
    kind: synonym
  - term: その上
    meaning: Besides, In addition, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: おまけに
    meaning: In addition, On top of that, What is more, To make matters worse
    kind: synonym
