grammar_point: ことにする
jlpt: N3
meaning: To decide on, Have decided to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In a similar way to howにするmeans to 'decide on' something,ことにするmeans to decide on a situation,
  or course of action. This grammar point is a combination of事'thing' in its role as a nominalizer (a
  word that creates a noun-phrase), andにする'to make it (A)'. Literally this grammar structure can be translated
  as 'to do (A)', or 'to make it (A)'.ことにするmay be used with verb-phrases that are either in the affirmative,
  or negative (using ない) forms. As こと itself is anoun, the verb (or auxiliary verb) that comes before
  it will need to be in itsattributive form.にするis a strong expression, which tends to make the speaker
  sound like they are fairly resolute in their decision.CautionTheするinにするitself may also be seen using
  ない, to mean that someone has decided 'against' doing something. Due to this, careful attention will
  need to be paid to the overall structure of the sentence.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日はワクチンを打ったから、明日は仕事を休むことにする。
    english: Today I got vaccinated, so I will go with taking the day off tomorrow.
  - japanese: タマキさんと箱根に行くことにする。
    english: I have decided to go to Hakone with Tamaki-san.
  - japanese: 今日は雨が降っているから、明日行くことにしない？
    english: It is raining today, don't you want to make it that we go tomorrow?
  - japanese: 勝手に僕が行くという事にしないでください。
    english: Please don't decide that I will go without asking me. (Please don't assume that I want to
      go)
  - japanese: これからは肉を食べることにする。
    english: I have decided to eat meat from now on.
  - japanese: これからは肉を食べることにしない？
    english: Let's decide to eat meat from now on.
  - japanese: これからは肉を食べないことにする。
    english: I have decided to not eat meat from now on.
  - japanese: これからは肉を食べないことにしない。
    english: I have decided to not not eat meat from now on.
  - japanese: 今日はエイプリルフールだからウソしか言わない事にする。
    english: Since today is April Fool's, I've decided to only tell lies.
  - japanese: あの場所で、記念写真を撮る事にします。
    english: We've decided to take the commemorative photo at that place.
  - japanese: 九時に終わるか分からなかったが、早めに帰る事にしました。
    english: I didn't know if it would finish at nine but, I decided to go home in advance.
  - japanese: これ以上言わない事にします。もし何か言ったら彼女を怒らせるでしょう。
    english: I have decided not to say anything else. If I say something, it would piss her off.
  - japanese: この商品、無料で配る事にします。
    english: I have decided to hand out this product for free.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことにする
false_friends:
  - term: にする
    meaning: To decide on, To choose, To make something into, To view something as
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようにする
    meaning: To try to, To make sure to, To endeavor to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことになる
    meaning: It will end up being, It is the result of, It has been decided that
    kind: synonym
