grammar_point: ことだ
jlpt: N3
meaning: Should, Ought
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As asentence ending particle, こと has two primary functions. These are as follows:願望や軽い命令を表す -
  Highlighting a desire or weak command.感嘆や疑問を表す - Highlighting astonishment or doubt.We will focus on
  the first meaning in this grammar point, as the 'astonishment' nuance is not as commonly used in modern
  Japanese, and is primarily used only by women.At the end of a sentence, こと will be paired with the dictionary
  (or ない) form of a verb, to highlight a particular action that either should, or should not occur. It
  is usually grouped with theauxiliary verbだ, although this is not always the case. This construction
  is most often translated as 'should/should not (A)', or 'ought to/not (A)'.CautionThis use of こと implies
  a certain level of 'authority', and is therefore regularly used in relation to set rules and expectations
  (can very frequently be seen on signs in shops/parks, etc). Due to this, it should not be used when
  giving 'general' advice, especially to people of higher status.
examples:
  - japanese: 面倒くさくても朝ご飯を食べることだ。
    english: Even though it might be a pain, you should eat breakfast.
  - japanese: 明日の朝8時から試験が始まる。何があっても、時間通りに来ることだ。みんな、分かったか。
    english: The exams will begin tomorrow at 8 am. No matter what happens, you should come on time. Understood?
  - japanese: どんなに疲れていても諦めないことだ。
    english: You should not give up, no matter how tired you are.
  - japanese: 怪我をしたら、我慢をしないことだ。すぐ責任者に報告するように。
    english: If you get hurt, you shouldn't just suffer in silence. Immediately call your supervisor.
  - japanese: 先輩、後輩はもっと大切にすることだ。
    english: Senpai you should treat your kouhai with great care.
  - japanese: 明日は大切な試合があるから、練習をする事だ。
    english: Because there is an important game tomorrow, you should practice.
  - japanese: 生徒は、先生に従う事だ。
    english: Students should obey their teachers.
  - japanese: 大事なのは医者からもらった薬を飲む事だ。
    english: What is important, is that you should take the medicine the doctor gave you.
  - japanese: まずはやってみる事だ。改善点が見えてくるから。
    english: You ought to try it first because you'll find out what needs to be improved.
  - japanese: 覚えたらすぐにしゃべってみる事だ。上達するから。
    english: As soon as you memorize something, you ought to say it out loud. If you do that, you will
      get better.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことだ
false_friends:
  - term: ないほうがいい
    meaning: It'd be better not to, Shouldn't do
    kind: antonym
  - term: べきではない
    meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
    kind: antonym
  - term: てはならない
    meaning: Must not, Cannot, Should not
    kind: antonym
  - term: ことはない
    meaning: There is no need to, Never happens
    kind: antonym
  - term: たほうがいい
    meaning: It'd be better to, Should do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: べき
    meaning: Must, Should , Ought to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものだ
    meaning: Supposed to, Should, That's the way it is
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばいい
    meaning: Can, Should, It'd be good if
    kind: synonym
  - term: わけだ
    meaning: For that reason, No wonder, As you'd expect, Naturally, Thus, This is why
    kind: synonym
