grammar_point: いずれも
jlpt: N0
meaning: All (positive), None (negative), Both, Whatever, Whatsoever
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Get more example sentences!: Premium users get access to 12 example sentences on all Grammar Points.
writeup: いずれ is a formal adverb commonly used as a part of polite language with the same meaning as words
  like 何 'what', どう 'how', どちら 'where', etc. When combined with the adverbial particle も, いずれも may be
  translated as 'any (A)', or 'all of (A)'. However, the more literal translation is 'how even (A)', 'where
  even (A)', or 'what even (A)'.Cautionいずれ may be seen in the kanji forms of either 何 れ or 孰 れ, with the
  latter being far less common, but still relatively easy to come across in literature.Fun Factいずれにしても,
  いずれにせよ, and いずれにしろ are all fairly common set-phrases that can be translated as 'in the end', 'at any
  rate', or 'in any case'. The more literal translation for this particular pattern is 'whatsoever comes
  about' and is used to express that some particular result cannot be avoided.
examples:
  - japanese: まあ、いずれにしても別れる予定だったからちょうどいいよ。
    english: Well, in any case, I was going to break up with him so it was good timing.
  - japanese: いずれにせよ、みんなが集まってからでないと話が進められません。
    english: At any rate, we can't continue with our discussion until everyone shows up.
  - japanese: いずれにしろ、返さないといけないことになるんだから早めに返済しな。
    english: In the end, you are going to have to pay it back, so you might as well start early.
  - japanese: 二人の意見はいずれも熟考する価値がある。
    english: Both of your decisions are worth careful consideration.
  - japanese: 寿司とすき焼き、いずれも日本食である。
    english: Both sushi and sukiyaki are Japanese dishes.
  - japanese: それらの本はいずれも教育に関するものだ。
    english: All of those books are related to education.
  - japanese: 父と母、いずれも昭和に生まれたそうです。
    english: I heard that both dad and mom were born in Showa.
  - japanese: ピンクとオレンジ、いずれも明るい色です。
    english: Both pink and orange are bright colors.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/いずれも
false_friends: []
