grammar_point: ことがある
jlpt: N3
meaning: Something is possible, Sometimes, Occasionally, There are times when
meaning_warning: Different meaning fromたことがある
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ことがあるis an expression in Japanese that combines thenounこと with thecase marking particleが, and
  the う - Verb, ある. It is often translated as 'to be possible', 'to occasionally occur', or 'to sometimes
  occur'. However, the more literal translation ofことがあるis '(A) is a thing that exists'.ことがあるmay be paired
  with theattributive formof any other word.Occasionally, が may be replaced by も. In these situations,
  it implies that '(A) is also a thing that exists'. Basically this just highlights that (A) is something
  that needs to be considered (among other things).Cautionことがあるdiffers fromたことがある(a phrase commonly paired
  with the past form of verbs).たことがあるhighlights a single event in which the (A) verb was completed. However,
  when the verb is not in past form, it simply implies that there are 'times' when the verb happens, as
  opposed to a single/specific time.
examples:
  - japanese: この馬は人を蹴ることがあるので、馬の後ろに立たないで下さい。
    english: This horse kicks people sometimes, so please don't stand behind him.
  - japanese: タナカ先生の授業はたまに楽しいことがある。
    english: There are times where Mr. Tanaka's classes are fun.
  - japanese: 仕事はだいたい大変だけれども、たまには楽なことがある。
    english: Work is usually difficult, but there are times where it is easy.
  - japanese: 仕事は楽しいけど、大変なこともある。
    english: Work is fun, but there are times where it gets difficult.
  - japanese: 先生はいつも怒っているけど、優しいこともある。
    english: Our teacher is always angry, but there are times when he is nice.
  - japanese: 週に1回のペースでラーメンを食べることがある。
    english: There are times when I go to eat ramen once a week.
  - japanese: このラーメンは食べたことがあると思う。
    english: I think I have eaten this ramen before.
  - japanese: 学校に送ってもらう事がある。
    english: I sometimes get a ride to school.
  - japanese: 友達は昼２時まで寝る事がある。
    english: There are times when my friend sleeps until two in the afternoon.
  - japanese: 一日に二、三回ぐらい、ラーメンを食べる事がある。
    english: There are days where I eat ramen two or three times.
  - japanese: 友達に日本語を教える事がある。
    english: There are times that I teach Japanese to my friend.
  - japanese: ルームメイトの無作法な振る舞いに注意したい事がよくある。でも、私は気が弱すぎる・・・
    english: There are times when I want to warn my roommate about his rude behavior. However, I am just
      too timid.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことがある
false_friends:
  - term: ことはない
    meaning: There is no need to, Never happens
    kind: antonym
  - term: たことがある
    meaning: Have done before
    kind: synonym
  - term: とき
    meaning: When, At the time of
    kind: synonym
