grammar_point: にかかっている
jlpt: N1
meaning: To depend on
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: にかかっているis a structure that may be translated as 'to depend on (A)', or 'to rest on (A)'. It is
  a combination of thecase marking particleに, and the ている continuous form of懸かる 'to depend'. Althoughにかかっているmay
  attach to nouns, it is also frequently seen following set structures such as かどうか 'whether or not',
  and か否か 'yes or no'.The に inにかかっているmay sometimes be replaced with theadverb如何に 'how', 'in what way',
  or 'to what extent. In these situations, the meaning stays relatively the same, but will extend to 'depending
  on the way in which (A)', or 'depending on to what extent (A)'.Fun Fact懸かる is from the same family of
  verbs as掛かる,架かる, and罹る. These all have a similar meaning, but with a slightly different nuance. Japanese
  has many verbs like this that have the same reading, but with a nuance that changes based on the kanji.
  Due to kanji not always being used for many of these, it will be important to be able to recognize which
  nuance is being used in any given situation.
examples:
  - japanese: 来月旅行に行けるかは、部長が僕に休みをくれるかにかかっている。
    english: Whether I can go on the trip next month depends on whether my boss will give me time off.
  - japanese: 地球の未来は若者にかかっているから、若者を教育しなくてはいけない。
    english: We must educate the youth because the future of this earth depends on them.
  - japanese: 自分で立ち上げた会社が成功するかどうかは自分の努力にかかっている。
    english: Whether your company will succeed or not depends on your own efforts.
  - japanese: この商品の売れ行きはマーケティングが成功するかどうか如何にかかっている。
    english: The sales of this product will depend on the success of the marketing.
  - japanese: みなさんが合格できるかできないかは、皆さんが努力するかどうか如何にかかっている。
    english: Whether or not you will be able to pass the exam depends on how hard you are going to work.
  - japanese: ほむら：「すべてが一人の少女の選択にかかっている。」
    english: 'Homura: ''Everything depends on one girl''s choice.'''
  - japanese: 成功するかどうかは才能よりむしろどれだけ頑張るかにかかっていると言えるだろう。
    english: '''It is fair to say that whether or not one succeeds depends on how hard one can work rather
      than one''s ability.'''
  - japanese: コーチ：「勝つも負けるも我々の協力にかかっているから頑張ろう。」
    english: 'Coach: ''Whether we win or lose depends on our cooperation, so let''s do our best!'''
  - japanese: 記事：「田中社長は当社の将来が、政府からの貸付けを受けられるかどうか如何にかかっている、ということを確信しました。」
    english: 'Article: ''Company President Tanaka believes that the company''s future depends on whether
      or not it is able to acquire a government loan.'''
  - japanese: 小説：「帝国の運命はターニャの作戦が成功するか否かにかかっている。」
    english: 'Novel: ''The fate of the empire depends on whether Tanya''s strategy succeeds or not.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にかかっている
false_friends:
  - term: 次第だ・次第で
    meaning: Depending on, So
    kind: synonym
  - term: 如何
    meaning: Depending on
    kind: synonym
