grammar_point: ようにする
jlpt: N4
meaning: So that, In order to, In such a way that
meaning_warning: Specifies end goals
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: (A)ようにするis an expression in Japanese which combines theauxiliary verbようだ, withする(indicating that
  you will 'try' to do something). Asようだis being linked to the verbする, it will take on its adverbial form,ように.
  This structure emphasizes that the (A) action (always a verb) is something that the speaker is going
  out of their way to do, and implies effort.Naturally, this structure may also be used with a negative
  verb, to imply that (A) being done is something that is actively being avoided. This translates as 'to
  make sure not to do (A)'.Fun FactBecauseようだcomes from the kanji様'manner', it carries the nuance that
  the 'way' that someone is doing (A) is specifically in a way that has success as the goal. Literally
  it translates quite closely to 'to do (A) in the manner of getting it done', and therefore just strengthens
  the (A) action, by using 'to do' twice.
examples:
  - japanese: 最近太ってきたので、毎日走るようにしています。
    english: Recently, I have been gaining weight, so I try to run everyday.
  - japanese: 次の試合で勝てるようにする。
    english: I will try to be able to win the next tournament.
  - japanese: 「空気が汚れるので乗り物に乗らないようにする」と弟が言いました。
    english: My brother said 'I try not to ride vehicles, because it pollutes the air'.
  - japanese: 成績が悪いから学校を休まないようにする。
    english: Because my grades are bad, I will try not to miss school.
  - japanese: 毎日野菜を食べるようにしないといけない。
    english: You have to try to eat vegetables every day.
  - japanese: 予約に間に合うようにしましょう。
    english: Let's try to be on time for the reservation.
  - japanese: そのコップを落とさないようにしてください。
    english: Please try not to drop that cup.
  - japanese: あまり音が出ないようにしてください。
    english: Please try not to make much noise.
  - japanese: 綺麗に包むようにします。
    english: I will try to wrap it beautifully.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ようにする
false_friends:
  - term: 〜ようとしない
    meaning: Not willing to, Not make an effort to, To not attempt or try to, Volitional + としない
    kind: antonym
  - term: ことにする
    meaning: To decide on, Have decided to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように～てほしい
    meaning: Want ~ to ~ like ~, Want ~ to be able to ~, Want ~ to ~ in the way of ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: てみる
    meaning: To try to
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb[volitional]とする
    meaning: Try to, Attempt to, To be about to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようになる
    meaning: To reach the point that, To come to be that, To turn into
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように
    meaning: So that, In order to, In such a way that
    kind: synonym
