grammar_point: ようによっては
jlpt: N1
meaning: Depending on the way, Depending on how
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ようによってはis used in Japanese to indicate that the way in which something is done will determine
  the result. This structure is a combination of the noun様‘manner’, or ‘way’, thecase-marking particleに,
  the て-form of the う-Verb, よる ‘to depend on (A)’, or ‘to be due to (A)’, and theadverbial particleは.
  The standard translation is ‘depending on the way that (A), (B)’.ようによってはwill often highlight results
  that vary greatly from person to person, or from one method to the other.This grammar pattern will appear
  after theconjunctive formof verbs.CautionThis phrase may be simply considered to be a more advanced
  version of the suffix方, which also highlights a ‘way’. In fact, the two suffixes are completely interchangeable,
  with様being the more formal of the two.
examples:
  - japanese: この映画は見ようによってはコメディーだと感じる人もいるだろう。
    english: Some people may see this movie as a comedy film, depending on how they watch it.
  - japanese: 45分で行けるはずだけど、混みようによっては1時間半かかることもあり得るから明日は少し早く家を出よう。
    english: We should be able to get there in 45 minutes, but depending on how congested the road is,
      it could take an hour and a half, so let’s leave a bit early tomorrow.
  - japanese: どんなに安全な機械であっても使いようによってはとても危険になることもある。
    english: No matter how safe a machine is, it could become very dangerous depending on how you use
      it.
  - japanese: この絵は見方によっては奇麗な女性かウサギに見える。
    english: Depending on how you look at this picture, it may look like a beautiful lady or a rabbit.
  - japanese: このドレスの色は見ようによっては「青と黒」か「白と金」に見えるかもしれない。
    english: Depending on how you look at it, the color of this dress may seem like it's 'blue and black'
      or 'white and gold'.
  - japanese: 「結構です」は聞きようによっては肯定にでも否定にでもどちらにでも受け取れる。
    english: Depending on the way you hear it, '結構です' can be taken either as affirmation or denial.
  - japanese: 経済危機は、一見絶望しかないように見えるが、考えようによっては素晴らしい機会とも言えるかもしれない。
    english: The economic crisis may seem to be nothing but despair. However, depending on the way you
      think about it, it might also be called a great opportunity.
  - japanese: 確かに、この大きな目のクモは、見ようによっては可愛いらしいと言えなくもない。
    english: Needless to say, depending on the way you look at this big-eyed spider, it can kind of be
      called adorable.
  - japanese: このツイートは読みようによっては皮肉にも取れるだろう。
    english: Depending on the way you read this tweet, you could take it as irony, right!?
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ようによっては
false_friends: []
