grammar_point: たとたんに
jlpt: N3
meaning: The instant or moment, As soon as, Just as
meaning_warning: Cannot be used after Nouns or Adjectives
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: たとたんに, frequently seen using its kanji formた途端にis a structure used to convey that something happens
  'the instant', or 'the moment' that something else occurs. It is a combination of theauxiliary verbた
  (indicating the completion of a verb), and thenoun途端'on the tip of' used adverbially (withに).(A)た途端に(B)
  is used to express (B) things that are beyond the control of the speaker, and may be considered strange,
  or unexpected.As途端literally means 'on the tip of', any (B) action is considered to happen either directly
  upon (A), or even simultaneously with (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 高速に乗った途端に、タイヤがパンクした。
    english: The moment I got on the highway, my tire got punctured.
  - japanese: 布団に入った途端に先輩から電話がかかってきた。
    english: The moment I got into my futon, I received a call from my senpai.
  - japanese: 出た途端に、雨が降り始めた。
    english: The instant I went outside, it began to rain.
  - japanese: 窓を開けた途端、鳥が部屋の中に入ってきた。
    english: As soon as I opened the window, a bird flew into the room.
  - japanese: 帰ろうとした途端、仕事を頼まれた。
    english: Just as I was about to leave, I was given more work to do.
  - japanese: 彼女は随分大人になっていたが、見た途端あの子だと分かった。
    english: She had grown up a lot, but I knew that child was her the moment I saw her.
  - japanese: 青になった途端に飛び出すのは危ないよ。
    english: It's dangerous to speed off the instant (a traffic light) turns (became) green.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たとたんに
false_friends:
  - term: なり
    meaning: As soon as, The moment, When
    kind: synonym
  - term: と同時に
    meaning: At the same time as, The instant, The moment, As well as
    kind: synonym
  - term: かと思ったら・かと思うと
    meaning: Then again, Just when I thought, No sooner than
    kind: synonym
  - term: たところだ
    meaning: Just finished doing, Was just doing
    kind: synonym
  - term: たばかり
    meaning: Just did, Something just happened
    kind: synonym
  - term: 直ちに
    meaning: At once, Immediately, As soon as
    kind: synonym
  - term: 次第
    meaning: As soon as
    kind: synonym
