grammar_point: 恐れがある
jlpt: N2
meaning: There is a risk or fear that, Be in danger of, Possibility of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 恐れがあるis a set phrase in Japanese that is used in a fairly literal sense to convey that 'there
  is a chance of (A)', or 'there is a fear of (A)'. This is a combination of the noun,恐れ 'fear', が, and
  the う-Verb ある 'to be'.恐れがあるwill be used when (A) is a negative outcome that may potentially occur in
  some particular situation, and is usually used to warn about being careful of something.恐れ is primarily
  used directly after verbs, or nouns followed by の.In most cases,恐れ carries the meaning of something
  that innately carries some kind of concern in relation to it, so depending on the context, alternative
  suitable translations could be 'concern', 'anxiety', 'worry', etc.Fun-fact - In addition to がある following恐れ,
  other common combinations are恐れを抱く'to carry the fear of (A)', or 'to bear the fear of (A)', and恐れが強まる'for
  the fear of (A) to strengthen', or 'for the fear of (A) to intensify'.
examples:
  - japanese: 高温にすると爆発する恐れがあるので、直射日光が当たるところに置かないでください。
    english: Since there is a possibility of explosion when this reaches high temperatures, please don't
      place this in direct sunlight.
  - japanese: 津波の恐れがある場合には、速やかに避難所まで避難してください。
    english: When there is a risk of a tsunami, please rapidly evacuate to the evacuation area.
  - japanese: 若者が将来について恐れを抱くことは普通のことです。
    english: It is normal for young people to have fears about the future.
  - japanese: 夏場の現場では熱中症の恐れが強まるので、作業員の方はこまめに水分補給と休憩を取るようにしてください。
    english: Workers are encouraged to hydrate and take frequent breaks, as the risk of heat stroke increases
      at construction sites during summer.
  - japanese: 天気予報：「明日は、本州を中心に大雨の降る所がありそうです。関東から東北にかけては強風の恐れもあります。」
    english: 'Weather forecast: ''It seems that the areas where rain will fall tomorrow are centered in
      Honshuu.There is also the possibility of strong winds from the Kanto to Tohoku areas.'''
  - japanese: もし全住民が注射されなければ、伝染病が拡がる恐れがある。
    english: If the entire population is not vaccinated, there is a fear that the contagious disease will
      spread.
  - japanese: 医者：「倒れたせいで肩に怪我をした恐れがあるので、レントゲンを撮ったほうがいいです。」
    english: 'Doctor: ''You should have an X-ray since there is a risk that you injured your shoulder
      due to falling.'''
  - japanese: この絵の具は中身が漏れる恐れがあるから袋に入れてください。
    english: There is a risk that the contents of these paints will leak, so please place them in a bag.
  - japanese: 遠足に行ったのはいいが、急な天候の変化で帰れない恐れがある。
    english: It is alright if you go on the trip, but there is the possibility of a sudden change in weather
      that would not let you return (home).
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/恐れがある
false_friends:
  - term: かねない
    meaning: Might, Could be, Capable of, Possible
    kind: synonym
