grammar_point: きり
jlpt: N3
meaning: Only, Just, Since
meaning_warning: っきり is more casual than きり
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As anadverbial particle,きりmay convey that 'upon (A)', where (A) is usually a verb, that action
  was the 'first and last time'. This is frequently translated as 'only', 'just', or 'since'.きりcomes from
  the う - Verb切る'to cut'.きりis often used after the plain past form of verbs, with nouns, or with counters.
  Let's look at verbs first.With verbs,きりis primarily used to show that (A) occurring was all that was
  required for (B). Usually, this results in some permanent consequence, or permanent change of opinion.
  In almost every situation, (A) is something that has only happened once, andきりcan be interpreted as
  'ever since'.When it comes to the use ofきりwith nouns or counters, it will express that something is
  happening with (A) as the limit 'nothing more, nothing less'. In other words, (A) is all that will be
  included in some particular situation/action.Cautionきりmay also be seen asっきりorキリ. There is no specific
  change in nuance, butっきりis the most common casual form.
examples:
  - japanese: 昨日、晩ご飯食べたきり何も食べてないから、めちゃお腹が空いた。
    english: I haven't eaten anything since last night, so I am extremely hungry.
  - japanese: お祖母ちゃんは去年病気で倒れて、寝たきりになった。
    english: Grandma got sick last year, and has become bedridden. (Can only sleep)
  - japanese: 一人きりになれる時間が欲しい。
    english: I  want some time where I can be alone.
  - japanese: 彼とは一度きりしか会えていない。
    english: I was only able to meet him once.
  - japanese: 二人っきりの時間はいいね！
    english: A time just for the two of us is nice, isn't it!
  - japanese: やっと二人っきりになれたね。
    english: It is finally just the two of us.
  - japanese: その店に一回行ったきり、行っていない。
    english: I went to that store just once and haven't gone again.
  - japanese: 寂しい時、一人っきりで泣く。
    english: When I am sad, I cry alone. (just/only myself)
  - japanese: 父がついに寝たきりになってしまった。
    english: My dad has become completely bedridden (only/just sleeps).
  - japanese: 彼女とは喧嘩したっきり会っていません。
    english: I haven't seen my girlfriend since we had a fight.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/きり
false_friends:
  - term: だけしか
    meaning: To emphasize '~only', Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: しか～ない
    meaning: There's only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけ
    meaning: Only, Just
    kind: synonym
  - term: ままに (as desired)
    meaning: As is, While remaining, Left in a state
    kind: synonym
  - term: たなり・なり
    meaning: While... ~ing, Remaining, Not or ever since, Keep or leave
    kind: synonym
