grammar_point: とあって
jlpt: N1
meaning: Since...(it is no wonder that), Because...(it is no wonder that), Due to...(it is no wonder that)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: とあってis a formal grammar expression that combines thecase marking particleと with the て-form of
  ある 'to be'. It is used to present an unusual situation from which an obvious result will or has occurred.
  It is often translated as 'since (A), it is no wonder that (B)', or 'because of (A), it's natural that
  (B)'.とあってis usually seen following almost any word in theirstandard forms, but な-Adjectives will require
  a だ to come between them andとあって.This construction can be thought of as similar to として 'as', but with
  focus more on 'what (A) is or is viewed as', emphasized through ある, rather than 'how (A) conducts itself
  or is conducted', emphasized through する.Cautionとあってis only used objectively, and will not refer to the
  speaker or writer themselves.
examples:
  - japanese: あのグループの卒業ライブが行われるとあって、この会場は大勢のファンで溢れている。
    english: Since a farewell concert of that group is about to take place, this venue is filled with
      a large number of fans.
  - japanese: 北海道は夏の間でも涼しいとあって、冬の間だけでなく夏にも多くの観光客が訪れるらしい。
    english: I heard that Hokkaido attracts many tourists not only during winter, but also summer since
      it is cool there even during the summer months.
  - japanese: あの街は便利だとあって、土地の値段が高い。
    english: Since that city is convenient, the price of land is expensive.
  - japanese: お盆の最終日とあって、高速道路だけでなく、下道もものすごく混んでいる。
    english: Both the toll free road and the expressway are extremely crowded since it is the last day
      of Obon.
  - japanese: 私はハンサムとあって、友達が作りやすい。
    english: Since I am handsome, it is easy to make friends. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 記事：「この都市で唯一のイタリアンが食べれるレストランとあって、自然と大人気になった。」
    english: 'Article: ''Since it is the only restaurant in this city where one can eat Italian cuisine,
      (it is no wonder that) it naturally became very popular.'''
  - japanese: 記事：「沖縄は日本の他のところと比べて冬でも暖かいとあって、夏休みにとどまらず一年中日本全国から多くの人が訪れる。」
    english: 'Article: ''Since even winters in Okinawa are mild compared to other parts of Japan, (it
      is no wonder that) it is visited by many people from all over the country not only in summer but
      all year round.'''
  - japanese: ニュースサイト：「 気軽に鹿などの野生動物が撮影できるとあって、大変人気の撮影スポットの一つになっています。」
    english: 'News site: ''Since one can easily photograph wild animals such as deer, (it is no wonder
      that) it has become one of the most popular photography spots.'''
  - japanese: ニュース：「今日は元日とあって、神社には初詣に来て、お賽銭をお供えする人がいっぱいです。」
    english: 'News: ''Since it is the first day of the new year, (it is no wonder that) there are many
      people who have come to the shrine(s) for hatsumode to pay their respects and offer money.'''
  - japanese: ニュースサイト：「日本で初上映とあって、大人から子どもまで多くの人が集まりました。」
    english: 'News: ''Since it premiered in Japan, (it is no wonder that) many people of all ages gathered.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とあって
false_friends: []
