grammar_point: にほかならない
jlpt: N2
meaning: Nothing but, None other than, Simply
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: に他ならないis a grammar pattern used with verbs to indicate that something is 'definitely (A)', or
  'nothing but (A)'. Other common translations are 'none other than (A)', or 'simply (A)'.This expression
  is often used to emphasize statements, reasons, or causes.Being a combination of thenoun他'other' and
  the negated form of the う-Verb なる 'to become'. This phrase literally just states that (A) will not become
  anything other than what it is, as the given definition is already the most accurate.Caution - In formal
  situations, particularly formal writing,に他ならぬmay also sometimes be seen.
examples:
  - japanese: かすみさんがみんなに好かれるのはお人よしだからに他ならない。
    english: The reason why Kasumi-san is liked by everyone is simply because she is a good person.
  - japanese: こんな夜遅くに訪問してくるなんて迷惑に他ならない。
    english: Visiting me at such a late time is nothing but a nuisance.
  - japanese: Aチームがこの大会で優勝できたのは岡村コーチのおかげにほかならぬ。
    english: The reason why team A was able to win this tournament is simply because of coach Okamura.
  - japanese: 我が社の商品が人気なのは広告が印象的だからにほかならぬ。
    english: The reason our company's products are popular is simply because our advertisements leave
      a lasting impression.
  - japanese: わが社の今年度の多大な利益は顧客のおかげにほかなりません。
    english: Our company's tremendous profit for this fiscal year is thanks to none other than our customers.
  - japanese: タイタニック号の沈没は低品質なリベットに因ったものにほかならない。
    english: The sinking of the Titanic was caused by nothing but low quality rivets.
  - japanese: 通常の事故の原因はスピード違反にほかならない。
    english: The common cause of the accidents is simply people going too fast.
  - japanese: 学校校長の生徒に対した演説：「みなさんの未来に責任を持つのは誰でしょうか。それはみなさん自身にほかならないのです。」
    english: 'School director''s speech to students: ''Who is responsible for your future? That is none
      other than yourself.'''
  - japanese: 三位という結果は彼の実力にほかならない。
    english: Getting (the result of) 3rd was simply due to his skill.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にほかならない
false_friends:
  - term: にすぎない
    meaning: No more than, Just, Merely
    kind: synonym
  - term: しか～ない
    meaning: There's only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: だらけ
    meaning: Completely covered in, Full of
    kind: synonym
  - term: よりほかない
    meaning: To have no choice but, No other way than, Have to
    kind: synonym
