grammar_point: かたわら
jlpt: N1
meaning: While, Besides, In addition to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 傍ら, seen primarily in hiragana, is a noun in Japanese that means 'bystander', in regard to something
  that is alongside or in the same place as the main focus. As a grammatical structure, it will be translated
  as 'while (A)', 'in addition to (A)', or 'besides (A)'.かたわらmay come after nouns followed by の, or after
  thedictionary formof verbs.Something that can be remembered from the 'bystander' meaning of this word
  is thatかたわらwill always come after the primary action or state of (A), while (B) is considered to just
  be there incidentally to (A), or as being done secondarily to it. This usually takes the form of something
  like a side job or a hobby.CautionUnlike ながら,かたわらdoes not necessarily indicate two actions that are
  happening at the exact same time, just actions that are happening independently of each other with one
  being the focus, and the other happening to a lesser extent within the same subject's life, day to day
  activities, etc.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は飲食店を経営しているかたわら、鳶職人としても働いている。
    english: Besides running a restaurant, he also works as a steeplejack.
  - japanese: グレッググラフィンは大学の教授をしているかたわら、歌手として活動している。
    english: In addition to being a college professor, Greg Graffin is also active as a singer.
  - japanese: 私の妹は本業のかたわら、英会話教室で英語を教えている。
    english: My sister teaches English at an English conversation class in addition to her day job.
  - japanese: 妻は子育てのかたわら、近所の子供達にそろばんを教えている。
    english: My wife teaches abacus to kids in the neighborhood in addition to raising our children.
  - japanese: ブルースは、昼は財閥を経営する傍ら、夜はバーマンとして危険地域を見回っている。
    english: During the daytime, Bruce manages his family corporation, while at night he patrols dangerous
      areas as BARMAN.
  - japanese: いくつかの国では、女性は仕事の傍ら、苦労をいとわず子供を育てている。立派なことだと思う。
    english: In some countries, women work in addition to raising their children, not minding the hardships.
      I think that is quite praiseworthy.
  - japanese: 彼女は大学で教える傍ら、家でも個人指導をしている。
    english: Besides teaching at university, she gives private lessons at home.
  - japanese: 本業の傍らバイトなどの副業をしている多数の人々がいる。
    english: Besides working their main jobs, there are many people that also work part-time jobs on the
      side.
  - japanese: 指導医として病院に務める傍ら、コンサルタントと専門医として企業でも業務を行っています。
    english: In addition to working as the preceptor at the hospital, she also engages in business as
      a consultant and a medical specialist.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かたわら
false_friends:
  - term: ながら
    meaning: While ~ing, During, As
    kind: synonym
  - term: 一方で
    meaning: On the other hand, At the same time, While
    kind: synonym
