grammar_point: ずにはおかない
jlpt: N1
meaning: Will definitely, Will certainly, Bound to, Not fail to
meaning_warning: also used to express that subject (usually non-animate like a book) has an emotional
  effect on people
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ずにはおかないis a combination of theclassical auxiliary verbず, thecase-marking particleに, theadverbial
  particleは, and the standard negated form of the う-Verb措く,措かない, ‘to set aside’, or ‘to leave as is’.
  It is interpreted as ‘(A) will definitely happen’, or ‘I will not fail to (A)’.This is a formal expression
  that literally means ‘I cannot leave it as it is with (A) undone’, and therefore indicates strong will
  to complete the action that is reflected in the standard translations.As this structure begins with
  ず, it will only be used with verbs.Alternatively, ないでは may replace ず. This will be seen as ないではおかない.
  However, the meaning will not change at all.CautionDue to this grammar expression showing strong will
  to not give up until (A) is done, it will often be used with causative verbs in (A). This indicates
  that the speaker is determined not to quit until they can make another person do something.
examples:
  - japanese: あんなひどいことをした人だから、警察も捕まえずにはおかないだろう。
    english: I am sure the police will not fail to arrest that person, since they did something so horrible.
  - japanese: メディアにも取り上げられたから、警察も調査をせずにはおかない。
    english: Since it was covered by the media, the police will certainly investigate.
  - japanese: こんなことをされたのだから、お客さんも訴えないではおかないだろう。
    english: Since they did such a thing to the customers, they would certainly sue them.
  - japanese: この犬は30キロになるから、躾に力を入れないではおかない。
    english: Since this dog will become 30kg, I will not fail to train him.
  - japanese: あの人のスピーチは聞く人を感動させずにはおかない。
    english: That person’s speech will not fail to move the audience.
  - japanese: 小説、勇者：「どんな手段を用いても、かならず魔王を倒さずにはおかない。」
    english: 'Novel: ''No matter what it takes, I will not fail to defeat the Demon Lord!'''
  - japanese: 「私はきっと彼に同じ手で仕返しをしないではおかない。」
    english: '''I won''t fail to pay him back in his own coin.'''
  - japanese: 「警察はすべての悪者に必ず罰を与えずにはおかない。」
    english: '''The police will not fail to punish all the wicked people.'''
  - japanese: 「彼はまた私との約束をすっぽかした。絶対に彼に『ごめんなさい』と言せずにはおかない。」
    english: '''He skipped our appointment again. I won''t fail to get him to say "I''m sorry".'''
  - japanese: 小説：「探偵は『この残虐行為の責任者を訴追せずにはおかない』と意を決する。」
    english: 'Novel: ''The detective resolved himself, "I won''t fail to bring the person responsible
      for this atrocity to justice".'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ずにはおかない
false_friends: []
