grammar_point: 誰か・どこか・誰も・どこも
jlpt: N5
meaning: Someone, Somewhere, Not anyone, Not anywhere
meaning_warning: The meaning of these words will change, based on whether the sentence is positive, or
  negative
details:
  Part of Speech: Adverbial Particle
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 副詞
  単語の種類: 副助詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: The constructions 誰か , and どこか are used when you want to ask, or answer questions about 'someone',
  or 'somewhere' (positive sentences). Alternatively, 'no one', or 'nowhere' based statements are made
  with 誰も , and どこも (negative sentences). Structures like this that use 誰 were briefly discussed in the
  誰 grammar point.Using 誰 , or どこ is not limited to the か and も particles. へ , に , or と may also be partnered
  with か or も , to give a more specific meaning.As can be seen with these examples, か will always precede
  any other particle in a positive sentence. However, the opposite is true for も . も will always follow
  any other particles in negative sentences. This is because か will always attach directly to the noun
  (when altering the meaning of that noun), but も alters the whole phrase, not just the noun.However,
  It should be noted that も is not limited to appearing in negative sentences, as can be seen with the
  final example.
examples:
  - japanese: 「どこかに友達がいるのですか。」「どこにもいません。」
    english: '''Do you have friends somewhere?''''I don''t have friends anywhere.'''
  - japanese: 「誰かにそのことを言いましたか。」「いいえ、誰にも言っていません。」
    english: '''Did you tell someone about that?''''No, I didn''t tell anyone.'''
  - japanese: 「どこかにあるでしょう。」「どこにもありませんよ。」
    english: '''It is probably somewhere.''''It is not anywhere (I''m telling you).'''
  - japanese: 「紙を誰かに渡しましたか。」「誰にも渡していません。」
    english: '''Did you hand off the paper to someone?''''I did not hand off the paper to anyone.'''
  - japanese: 「どこかへ出かけますか。」「どこへも行きたくないよ。」
    english: '''Do you want to go somewhere?''''I don''t want to go anywhere, man.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/誰か-どこか-誰も-どこも
false_friends: []
