grammar_point: ないで
jlpt: N4
meaning: Without doing, Not ~ and ~
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: There are two primary ways in whichないでis used with verbs in Japanese. The first is to express
  'without doing (A), (B)'. The second is to request that someone 'not do (A)'. We will examine the first
  in this write-up.ないでis a combination of theauxiliary verbない, and the particleで. Due to this,でkeeps its
  standard meaning of 'with/by', in relation to 'not' doing something.Whenないでis used to express that '(A)
  has not been done before doing (B)', this is usually contrary to some kind of expectation. Because of
  this, ないで is often used to express something that may be surprising to the listener.CautionBe careful
  of the following two structures:(A)ないで(B) - Without doing (A), (B)(A)なくて(B) - Without doing (A), (B)Technically,
  these two constructions share a similar meaning. However, in modern Japaneseないでis used more frequently
  when the (B) action is being highlighted as being done without (A). On the other hand,なくてis used when
  (A) is being given as a reason for why something else was/wasn't done.
examples:
  - japanese: 魚を焼かないで食べたから、お腹を壊した。
    english: Since I ate fish without cooking it, I got a stomach ache. (Literally, to break one's stomach)
  - japanese: アミはドアのカギをかけないで寝るの？危ないよ。
    english: Ami, you sleep without locking your doors? That's dangerous.
  - japanese: 上司に伝えないで休んだの！？
    english: You took the day off without notifying your boss!?
  - japanese: 昼ご飯を温めないで食べた。
    english: I ate my lunch without heating it up. (Event 2 happened without event 1)
  - japanese: インターネットが繋がらなくて困ってる。
    english: I am bothered because the internet isn't connecting. (Event 2 happened because of event 1)
  - japanese: 休まないで仕事をする。
    english: To work without taking a break.
  - japanese: 「後悔しないで生きたい。」
    english: '''I want to live without regret.'''
  - japanese: 「あの人は便所から手を洗わないで出てきたんだよ。」
    english: '''That person left the toilet without washing their hands!'''
  - japanese: 夕食を食べないで、寝る。
    english: To go to bed without eating dinner.
  - japanese: 「遊ばないで、勉強をしてください」ってお母さんが言いました。
    english: My mother said 'Please study without playing!'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ないで
false_friends:
  - term: てください
    meaning: Please do (Polite request)
    kind: antonym
  - term: なさい
    meaning: Command to do
    kind: antonym
  - term: ないでください
    meaning: Please don't (Polite request)
    kind: synonym
  - term: な
    meaning: Do not, Don't (Prohibitive)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ずに
    meaning: Without doing
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくて (not)
    meaning: To not ~ and ~, Not ~ and ~ (Conjugations)
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb[ないで]
    meaning: (Please) do not (for me), Casual request
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくて (not)
    meaning: Not ~ and, Not so, Because not (Examples)
    kind: synonym
