grammar_point: 何より
jlpt: N2
meaning: Be glad, Be relieved, Most, Best, Above all else, More than anything
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 何より, or何よりもwhen emphasized, is a common phrase in Japanese that is used when one wants to express
  that they are 'glad', 'relieved', or that '(A) is more important than anything'. As this structure is
  simply a combination of thesubstitute noun何'what', or 'whatever', and the particle より 'than', the closest
  literal translation is 'more than anything, (A)'.何よりis primarily used to express positive feelings when
  the actual situation may have been worse, but (A) is the most important.何より, and何よりもmost often behave
  adverbially, meaning that they can be used at the beginning of a sentence, or right before the word
  they are describing. However, they occasionally come directly before a noun when followed by の.As in
  most cases, も just strengthens the phrase slightly, with no other significant change in nuance.
examples:
  - japanese: 何より驚いたのは、あの中田くんが医者になったことだ。
    english: The most surprising thing is that Nakata-kun became a doctor.
  - japanese: 田中様のお役に立てて何よりです。
    english: We are glad to be of service to you, Tanaka-sama.
  - japanese: 何よりも大切なのは、何でも諦めずに頑張ってやることだ。
    english: The most important thing is to not give up and to do your best in anything you do.
  - japanese: 休みの日に妻とドライブに行くのが何よりの楽しみです。
    english: I love going on drives with my wife on weekends more than anything.
  - japanese: 久しぶりに挨拶する時：「お元気そうで何よりです。」
    english: 'When greeting someone we haven''t seen for a long time: ''I am really glad that you seem
      to be doing well.'' (above all else・more than anything)'
  - japanese: 記事：「両親にとって自分の子供の健康が何より大切です。」
    english: 'Article: ''For parents, there is nothing more important than the health of their children.''
      (above all else・more than anything)'
  - japanese: らくさん：「あなたにもらった本、わたしの息子がとても気に入っています。」おのでらさん：「それは何よりです。」
    english: 'Raku: ''My child loved the book he received from you.''Onodera: ''I am really glad.'''
  - japanese: 「ありがとうございます。」「お役に立てれば、何よりの幸せです。」
    english: '''Thank you very much.''''More than anything it is a blessing to be able to help.'' (above
      all else・more than anything)'
  - japanese: 「見つけた時、すべて折半だよ。」「どっちにしろ、そのためには、何よりまず見つけないと話にならん。」
    english: '''When we find it, we split everything equally.''''Either way, for that, above all else,
      if we can''t find it first, we won''t get anywhere.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/何より
false_friends: []
