grammar_point: ているあいだに
jlpt: N4
meaning: While, During the time that ~
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When (A)ているis paired with間に(B), it expresses that '(B) is happening/happened within the timeframe
  of (A)'. These events do not need to be related in any specific way, but the (B) action must happen
  somewhere within the duration of (A). This construction translates naturally as 'during the time that
  (A), (B)'.ている間にwill often be used when the (B) action is somehow beyond the control of the speaker.
  However, this is not always the case.Fun Fact間literally means an 'interval', and therefore highlights
  the (A) event as being the 'whole' span of time, within which (B) happened/will happen at some point.
examples:
  - japanese: ねえ、数えている間には話しかけないで。
    english: Hey, don't talk to me while I'm counting.
  - japanese: 荷物を運んでいる間に転んで怪我をした。
    english: I tripped and hurt myself when I was carrying luggage.
  - japanese: 旅行に行っている間に家に泥棒が入った。
    english: While I was on a trip, a burglar came into my house.
  - japanese: 妻が寝ている間に、私は好きなことができる。
    english: While my wife is sleeping, I can do what I like.
  - japanese: サッカーをしている間に電話がかかってきました。
    english: I got a phone call while playing soccer.
  - japanese: 勉強をしている間にお腹が空いてきた。
    english: I became hungry while studying.
  - japanese: 映画を見ている間に、お父さんが帰って来た。
    english: While I was watching a movie, my father came home.
  - japanese: 運転をしている間に、目の前で事故が起こった。
    english: While I was driving, an accident happened right before my eyes.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ているあいだに
false_friends:
  - term: ながら
    meaning: While ~ing, During, As
    kind: synonym
  - term: うちに
    meaning: While, During
    kind: synonym
  - term: ている①
    meaning: Is, Am, Are (~ing)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～ところに・～ところへ
    meaning: At the time, When, While, Timing
    kind: synonym
  - term: とき
    meaning: When, At the time of
    kind: synonym
  - term: つつある
    meaning: -ing, Be -ing
    kind: synonym
  - term: ているところだ
    meaning: In the process of doing ~ right now/at this moment
    kind: synonym
  - term: の間に
    meaning: While, During, Between, Period
    kind: synonym
  - term: 中
    meaning: During, While, Throughout, In the process of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ついでに
    meaning: While you are at it, On the occasion
    kind: synonym
