grammar_point: にもかかわらず
jlpt: N2
meaning: Despite, In spite of, Regardless, Nevertheless
meaning_warning: Do not confuse with にかかわらず
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: にもかかわらずis a formal grammar structure in Japanese used to convey that something is 'in spite of
  (A)', or 'despite (A)'. This pattern is a combination of に, も, the う-Verb拘わる 'to fixate on', or 'to
  stick to', and theliterary auxiliary verbず, which connects with verbs in the same way, and carries the
  same meaning as ない.This structure is most frequently seen connected to verbs, い-Adjectives and nouns
  in their standard forms. In most cases, this pattern will appear without kanji.Literally, this phrase
  can be thought of as expressing 'without being affected by (A), (B)', or 'without fixating on (A), (B)'.
  However, it is almost always used in exactly the same way as のに 'despite'.Caution - It is important
  not to getにも拘わらずmixed up with に関わらず. The former expresses 'despite', while the latter tends to be used
  more often for 'no matter if'.
examples:
  - japanese: 浜崎さんは毎日一生懸命働いていたのにもかかわらず、会社をクビになった。
    english: Despite working hard every day, Hamasaki-san was fired by the company.
  - japanese: 彼が悪いのにもかかわらず、私に謝らそうとしてきた。
    english: Despite him being in the wrong, he tried to make me apologize.
  - japanese: 田中さんは優しくて親切であるにもかかわらず、見た目が怖いから田中さんのことをよく知らない人からは怖がらて避けられている。
    english: Despite Tanaka-san being kind and helpful, he's feared and avoided by those who don't know
      him well because of his scary appearance.
  - japanese: 深夜にもかかわらず、上司が鬼電をしてきたので労基に報告しようと思う。
    english: Despite being late at night, my boss blew up my phone, so I'm thinking of reporting it to
      the labor standards inspection office.
  - japanese: お客さんが来ることを知っていたにもかかわらず、部屋の掃除をしていなかったので息子を叱った。
    english: Despite knowing that we were going to have guests over, my son did not clean his room so
      I scolded him.
  - japanese: お客さんが来るかどうかに関わらず、部屋は綺麗にしておいてください。
    english: Please keep your room clean no matter if guests are coming or not.
  - japanese: 古代ローマ時代、ガリアはローマによって征服されたにもかかわらず、ある小さな村はなおも戦い続けた。
    english: In Ancient Roman times, despite Gaul being conquered by Rome, a certain small village was
      still fighting.
  - japanese: 全ての物体は、その大小にもかかわらず、真空においては同じ速度で落下する。
    english: All objects, regardless of their size, fall at the same speed in a vacuum.
  - japanese: オデュッセウスは多数の危険にもかかわらず、大変な努力の結果、ついに彼の国に帰ることができた。
    english: Despite numerous dangers, Odysseus was able to finally return to his country as a result
      of his great efforts.
  - japanese: 熊は重いにもかかわらず、速く走れたり、木に登れたりするので、危険な動物だ。本物を見かけたら、じっとして驚かさないでください。
    english: Despite being heavy, since bears run fast, climb trees, and more, they are dangerous animals.
      If you happen to see one, stand still and do not surprise them.
  - japanese: 単独の無名の英雄は満身創痍(傷だらけ)だった。それにもかかわらず、気力のみで、像のように立った。素晴らしい景色だったと思う。
    english: A sole, nameless hero was wounded all over. Nevertheless, by sheer force of will, he remained
      standing like a statue. It was quite a beautiful sight.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にもかかわらず
false_friends:
  - term: ものの
    meaning: Although, But, Even Though
    kind: synonym
  - term: を問わず
    meaning: Regardless of, Whether or not, No matter, With or without
    kind: synonym
  - term: ながらも
    meaning: But, Even while, Even though, Despite, Although
    kind: synonym
  - term: くせに
    meaning: Even though, And yet, Despite
    kind: synonym
  - term: にかかわる
    meaning: To relate to, To have to do with, Concerning, Depends on
    kind: synonym
  - term: にかかわらず
    meaning: Regardless of, Whether or, No matter, With or without
    kind: synonym
