grammar_point: んだって
jlpt: N3
meaning: I heard that, He or She said that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Casual
  使用域: タメ語
writeup: When used at the end of sentences, だって often expresses something that has been heard by the speaker.
  This particular use of だって will always be paired with ん or なん.As だって is a grouping of theauxiliary verbだ,
  and theadverbial particleって, なんだって primarily expresses the following:なん - Presents an explanation.だ
  - Determines something to be true.って - An abbreviation of と言って 'is said' or と思って 'is thought'.In this
  way, it translates quite similarly to 'it is that (A) was said/thought'. Realistically though, it is
  used in the same way as 'I heard that (A)', or 'it's thought that (A)'.Cautionなんだって usually comes across
  as being quite casual, so is best used in conversations with friends.
examples:
  - japanese: サクラちゃん来年結婚するんだって。うらやましいね。
    english: I heard that Sakura-chan is going to get married next year. I am jealous, aren't you?
  - japanese: タケル君が新しいおもちゃが欲しいんだって。どうしよう？買ってあげる？
    english: I heard that Takeru-kun is wanting a new toy. What should we do? Should we buy it for him?
  - japanese: あの博士は凄い事言っているように聞こえるけど、実は言っていること全部適当なんだって。
    english: It sounds like that scientist is saying some amazing stuff, but I heard that everything he
      says is hot air.
  - japanese: タクミさんはレスラーみたいな体しているけど、好きなスポーツはフィギュアスケートなんだって。
    english: Takumi-san has a body like a wrestler, but I heard that his favorite sport is figure skating.
  - japanese: トムは、また元カノと付き合っているんだって。
    english: (Someone) said that Tom is back with his ex-girlfriend.
  - japanese: 来年の春ごろに、彼は故郷に帰るんだって。
    english: (Someone) said that he will return to his hometown around next spring.
  - japanese: 彼は真面目なんだって。
    english: (Someone) said that he is pretty serious.
  - japanese: あの人には分からないんだって。何回言っても。
    english: (Someone) said that person doesn't get it. No matter how many times you tell her/him.
  - japanese: やっと旅行に行けるんだって。お金が貯まったから。
    english: (They) said that (they) can finally travel. Because (they) saved up money.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/んだって
false_friends:
  - term: ときいた
    meaning: I heard that
    kind: synonym
  - term: って (quotation)
    meaning: Casual quotation
    kind: synonym
  - term: とか
    meaning: I heard that… something like, They said ... or something
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ①
    meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうだ
    meaning: I heard that, It is said that
    kind: synonym
  - term: だって
    meaning: I heard/was said, Because, But, Even or also, Even if or even though
    kind: synonym
