grammar_point: きらいがある
jlpt: N1
meaning: Have a tendency to, Tend to, Be slightly~
meaning_warning: In modern Japanese it is written using hiragana.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 嫌いがあるis a combination of the noun きらい 'a dislike', the case-marking particle が, and the う-Verb
  ある 'to be'. It is used to indicate the presence of negative tendencies or habits, and may be translated
  as 'to have a tendency to (A)', or 'to be prone to (A)'.This structure will be seen following thedictionary
  formof verbs, verbs negated with ない, or after nouns ending with の.As a more literal translation,嫌いがあるcan
  be thought of as 'having the displeasure of (A)', with the actual 'tendency' merely being implied.Due
  to嫌いがあるbeing quite strong, it is frequently used together with words that will slightly soften the meaning,
  such as少し 'a little bit', or どうも 'try as one might'.CautionAs嫌いがあるwill be used to describe things that
  are 'displeasurable' from the point of view of the speaker, it will usually not be used in relation
  to oneself.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女は三日坊主だから、何かを始めてもすぐに辞める嫌いがある。
    english: Since she is a quitter, she tends to quit things as soon as she starts them.
  - japanese: 彼は自分の意見を言わない嫌いがある。
    english: He tends to not share his own opinions.
  - japanese: お盆休みの間は浅草に行く観光客の数が上昇する嫌いがある。
    english: The number of tourists visiting Asakusa tends to rise during Obon.
  - japanese: お父さんは少し強い言い方をする嫌いがあるけど、あまり気にしないでね。
    english: My father tends to use harsh words, but please don't take it personally.
  - japanese: 斉藤さんはどうも冬になると家に引きこもる嫌いがあるので、今年の冬は斉藤さんとたくさんお出かけに行く予定です。
    english: Apparently, Saito-san tends to become a hermit during winter, so I made plans to go out a
      lot with her this winter.
  - japanese: 私はなんでもすぐ飽きる嫌いがある。
    english: I have a tendency to get bored easily with everything. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: ある人は、民族だけで人の性格を判断してしまうきらいがある。
    english: A certain person tends to judge a person's nature just by their ethnic group.
  - japanese: お父さんは、困っている人のためには人助けをする。しかし助けてもらった人は、されたことを忘れるきらいがある。
    english: Father always helps people in need. However, the people who received help tend to forget
      about it.
  - japanese: 近頃の親は過保護のきらいがある。
    english: Parents these days tend to be overprotective.
  - japanese: 彼女は彼の気持ちを尊重しないきらいがある。
    english: She has a tendency to not respect his feelings.
  - japanese: 記事：「高血圧のきらいがあることを除けばほとんど健康だった３４歳の男性はバクテリアの感染により重体に陥った。」
    english: 'Article: ''A 34-year-old man, who was mostly healthy, aside for a tendency to have high
      blood pressure, has fallen seriously ill due to a bacterial infection.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/きらいがある
false_friends:
  - term: 傾向がある
    meaning: Tendency, Trend, Inclination
    kind: synonym
  - term: がち
    meaning: Apt to do, Tend to do, Prone to do
    kind: synonym
