grammar_point: までもない
jlpt: N1
meaning: There is no need to, Do not have to, It is not necessary to, Needless to
meaning_warning: While までもなくて is also used、 it is less common than までもなく
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: までもないis a grammar pattern that consists of the particle まで 'until', theadverbial particleも, and
  ない 'there is not'. This structure will primarily be seen with a translation similar to 'there is no
  need to (A)', or 'it is not necessary to (A)'. However, a more literal translation of 'it is not so
  far as to (A)' is also completely acceptable, and still carries the correct nuance.までもないwill be used
  following verbs in theirdictionary form, and may or may not have a part (B) explaining why (A) is not
  necessary.As can be assumed by the use of まで, the primary nuance ofまでもないis that while there may be some
  sort of slight issue or problem, the speaker does not consider it as being something that has reached
  a point that is worth being concerned about. It may also indicate that because something is obvious,
  it does not need to be confirmed, etc.CautionWhen coming between an (A) and a (B) phrase, theconjunctive
  formまでもなくwill be used, but this is less common.
examples:
  - japanese: 痛いけど、指は全部ちゃんと動くから病院に行くまでもないと思う。
    english: Although it hurts, all my fingers move properly so there is no need to go to the hospital.
  - japanese: 息子を見て、何か悪いことをしたと分かった。聞くまでもなかった。
    english: I could tell that my son did something bad by just looking at him. It was not necessary for
      me to ask anything.
  - japanese: あの人ならなんとかしてくれるよ。心配するまでもないよ。
    english: Knowing that person, they would probably do something about it. There is no need to worry.
  - japanese: 言うまでもなく、不法投棄で近所の人が迷惑しています。
    english: It goes without saying that illegal disposal of garbage is causing troubles to the people
      in this neighborhood.
  - japanese: あのね......そんごくうはクリリンなんかとは比べるまでもなく、それどころかベジータよりもずっと強いんだから。
    english: Hey, there is no need to compare Goku to someone like Krillin, because he is far stronger
      than Vegeta.
  - japanese: 先生は、すでに全て解説したので聞くまでもない。
    english: There is no need to ask questions because the teacher has already explained everything.
  - japanese: この試験の難しさから考えると、試験の結果発表は見るまでもなく明らかだ。
    english: Judging from this exam's difficulty, the results are clear without the need to see them.
  - japanese: ゆきちゃん：「さきちゃん、あれはひどかったよ。」さきちゃん：「あんな奴なら、優しくするまでもない。」
    english: 'Yuki: ''Saki, that was cruel.''Saki: ''If it''s a guy like that, there is no need to be
      friendly.'''
  - japanese: 「今さら訂正するまでもなく、明らかに間違っている。」
    english: '''There is no need to correct it, it is clearly wrong.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/までもない
false_friends: []
