grammar_point: とおり
jlpt: N3
meaning: In that way, Exactly, Precisely, Just as
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Often, thenounとおりcarries the meaning of 'in that way', or 'just like that'. In its kanji form,とおりwill
  be written as通り, and literally means 'street', or 'way'. However, it is regularly used to indicate the
  level of 'sameness' one thing has with another. This 'sameness' meaning appears whenとおりis used as asuffix.とおり(or
  どおり) may be used with verbs or nouns. In the case of verbs, it is common to see it being used after
  both the plain form, and the simple-past form.Both どおり and のとおり may be used directly after nouns. However,とおりwill
  only be used when thecase marking particleの comes between the noun andとおり.While both of these structures
  may be used interchangeably, どおり is more common, especially in speech.Fun FactConstructions like言った通り
  and その通り are used very frequently, simply as a polite way to agree with what has been said by another.
  In these cases, it translates similarly to 'that's exactly right', or 'that's it!'.
examples:
  - japanese: お客様のおっしゃる通りです。
    english: Honored guest, the thing you say is precisely correct. (That's exactly right)
  - japanese: 彼は僕の思った通りの時間に帰ってきた。
    english: Just as I expected, he came back when I thought he would come back.
  - japanese: 計画どおり に進めて行きます。
    english: We will continue as the plan suggests.
  - japanese: ご覧の通り、私の手には何もありません。
    english: As you can see, I have nothing in my hands.
  - japanese: リカの言った通りだった！あそこのパン屋さんはすごくおいしかった！
    english: It was exactly as you said, Rika! The bakery over there was very delicious!
  - japanese: 本当にその通りです！何でいつも私たちがやらないといけないんですか。
    english: That's honestly exactly it! Why do we have to do it all the time?
  - japanese: 思った通りでした。
    english: It was just as I thought.
  - japanese: 今、卒業論文が順調です。予定どおりに完成させられそうです。
    english: Right now my graduation thesis is coming along nicely. I can finish it exactly/just as planned.
  - japanese: あなたのおっしゃる通りです。
    english: It will be precisely/just as you say.
  - japanese: 合格者は次の通りです。
    english: Those who passed are as follows... (Precisely)
  - japanese: お察しの通り、彼は病気です。
    english: Exactly/Just as you may guess, he is quite ill.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とおり
false_friends:
  - term: ように・ような
    meaning: As・like, Just like
    kind: synonym
  - term: れる・られる + ままに
    meaning: Do as (one is told or ordered…), In accordance with, In compliance with, Just like
    kind: synonym
  - term: ままに (as desired)
    meaning: As (one likes, feels or pleases), Spur of the moment, Wherever one fancies, Spontaneously,
      On a whim
    kind: synonym
