grammar_point: ため(に)
jlpt: N3
meaning: For, For the sake of, In order to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ため(or為in its kanji form) is a noun in Japanese that can be translated quite closely to 'sake'
  in English. However, it is classified as anon-independent wordin Japanese, and must always be connected
  to another word which illustrates the 'sake' thatためis highlighting. Thecase marking particleに will often
  be added afterため, to show that (A) is a goal that something will be done to reach.Due to this,ためにcan
  be translated as 'for the sake of (A)', or 'in order to (A)'.To useために, attach it to the end of verb
  in its non-past form, or a noun follow by の.Fun FactDespite mainly being used to highlight goals, or
  things dictating an action,ためis also sometimes used to highlight events that have already taken place,
  and their results. Due to this, a more accurate translation ofため(in all of its uses) is 'in light of
  (A)'. This simply highlights that (A) is the primary or major event/thing that resulted in (B), or will
  result in (B).Whenためhighlights past events, it is often translated simply as 'due to', or 'because of'.
examples:
  - japanese: 新しい家を建てるために、土地を買った。
    english: In order to build a house, I bought land.
  - japanese: 勉強をするために、親に机を買ってもらった。
    english: In order to study, I got my parents to buy me a desk.
  - japanese: 私のためにやって。
    english: Please do this for me.
  - japanese: 君のために買ってあげたのに、誰かにあげちゃったの？
    english: I bought this for you, but you gave it to someone?
  - japanese: 2年前、車を買うために、親からお金を借りました。
    english: In order to buy a car two years ago, I borrowed money from my parents.
  - japanese: 骨折したため、明日からしばらく仕事を休みます。
    english: Since I broke a bone, I am going to take some time off of work starting tomorrow.
  - japanese: 日本語が上手になる為に、文法を勉強すべきです。
    english: You should study grammar in order to become good at Japanese.
  - japanese: 君の為に何でもするよ。なぜなら、愛しているから。
    english: I would do anything for you. Because I love you.
  - japanese: 家を買う為にローンを組んだ。
    english: I took a loan in order to buy a house.
  - japanese: 僕はただいい点を取る為に勉強していません。
    english: I am not studying just for the sake of getting a good score.
  - japanese: 明日遊びに行く為に、今日仕事を終わらせないといけない。
    english: I have to finish my work today so that I can go out tomorrow.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ため-に
false_friends:
  - term: わけだ
    meaning: For that reason, No wonder, As you'd expect, Naturally, Thus, This is why
    kind: synonym
  - term: のに (in order to)
    meaning: In order to
    kind: synonym
  - term: には
    meaning: In order to, In regard to, For
    kind: synonym
  - term: そのため(に)
    meaning: For that reason, Because of that, To that end
    kind: synonym
  - term: 向き
    meaning: Suitable for, Facing
    kind: synonym
  - term: んがため(に)
    meaning: In order to, To, For the purpose of
    kind: synonym
