grammar_point: どんどん
jlpt: N4
meaning: Progressively, Rapidly increasing, More and more
meaning_warning: どんどん - Swift change, だんだん - Gradual change
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: どんどん (or ドンドン) is one of the countless words in Japanese that represent a particular sound or
  sensation. These words are known as onomatopoeia (オノマトペ in Japanese). どんどん represents the sound of banging
  (like on a drum), or the pounding of feet. In this way, it is regularly translated as 'rapidly', or
  'quickly'.Like だんだん , どんどん may be used before almost any phrase.While どんどん can take the particle と ,
  it is not required. In fact, と is very often omitted from adverbs/onomatopoeic words in Japanese.CautionInitially,
  it can be easy to mix-up どんどん , with だんだん . だんだん is used to express slower changes, and may be thought
  of as similar to 'steadily', or 'step by step' in English.Fun FactWhen the と particle is used with onomatopoeic
  words, it is very similar to one of と 's main usages as a quotation marker in Japanese. This means that
  と has a similar role to words like 'went', or 'goes' in English. For example, In English, we would say:The
  door 'goes' BANG with the wind.However, the door doesn't actually 'go' anywhere. This is similar to
  what と is doing here.
examples:
  - japanese: 毎日ピアノを練習しているから、だんだんピアノが上手になってきた。
    english: Because I practice the piano everyday, I have steadily gotten better at playing. (Slow progression)
  - japanese: 毎日ピアノを練習しているから、どんどんピアノが上手になってきた。
    english: Because I practice the piano everyday, I have rapidly gotten better at playing. (Rapid progression)
  - japanese: どんどん暑くなる。
    english: It will progressively get warmer and warmer.
  - japanese: どんどん日本語が上手になりたい。
    english: I want to progressively get better at Japanese.
  - japanese: 先週から、彼の意見がどんどん増えた。
    english: (The number of) his opinions have rapidly increased starting from last week.
  - japanese: 日本の人口がどんどん減る。
    english: The Japanese population will rapidly decrease.
  - japanese: 音がどんどん大きくなる。
    english: The sound will get louder and louder.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/どんどん
false_friends:
  - term: だんだん
    meaning: Gradually, Little by little, Step by step
    kind: synonym
  - term: ますます
    meaning: Increasingly, More and more, Decreasingly, Less and less, Keep -ing
    kind: synonym
  - term: ば〜ほど
    meaning: The more…the more
    kind: synonym
  - term: 一方だ
    meaning: More and more, Continue to, Keep on, -er and -er
    kind: synonym
