grammar_point: につれて
jlpt: N3
meaning: As…then, In proportion to, (Along) with
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: につれて, orに連れてwhen using kanji, is an expression that may be translated as 'as (A), then (B)',
  or 'in proportion to (A), (B)'. It is formed through the use of thecase marking particleに, the る - Verb連れる
  'to take along', and theconjunction particleて. Literally, the translation is similar to 'being taken
  along with (A), (B)', or 'in tow with (A), (B)'.につれてwill be used after the plain, non-past form of verbs,
  or nouns.As連れる is a transitive verb, (A)につれて(B) implies that (A) is causing (B) to happen simultaneously.
  This does not have to be something that (A) is purposely doing (although it may be), just a 'domino'
  type effect, where (A) is considered the instigator.
examples:
  - japanese: 毎日運転をするにつれて、どんどん運転が嫌いになってきた。
    english: Along with driving everyday, I am starting to dislike it more and more.
  - japanese: 夏になるにつれて、日が昇るのが早くなってきた。
    english: Along with it becoming summer, the time the sun comes up is getting earlier.
  - japanese: 犬の成長につれて、食欲が変わる。
    english: As the dog grows, how much he eats changes (in proportion).
  - japanese: 時代の変化につれて、食文化も変わる。
    english: As the times change, food culture also changes.
  - japanese: 冬になるにつれて、太陽が沈む時間が早くなる。
    english: Along with it becoming winter, the time the sun sets gets earlier. (Natural, as winter directly
      affects the time the sun sets)
  - japanese: 冬になるにつれて、犬が成長していく。
    english: In tow with it becoming winter, the dog grows more. (Unnatural, as there is no relationship)
  - japanese: こちらの木が大きくなるに連れて、影が広がる。
    english: As these trees grow tall, their shade spreads.
  - japanese: 子供の成長に連れて、性格が変わる。
    english: Along with their growth, the personality of children changes.
  - japanese: 結婚式を挙げる日が近づくに連れて、色々と不安になってきた。
    english: (Along) with our wedding day drawing nearer, I am starting to feel anxious about various
      things.
  - japanese: 日がたつに連れて、怪我が悪化してきた。
    english: As the days go by, my injury gets worse and worse.
  - japanese: 進むに連れて道がどんどん狭くなるから心配になってきた。
    english: As I continued on, the road grew increasingly more narrow, so I started to feel anxious.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/につれて
false_friends:
  - term: ともなると・にもなると
    meaning: When, If, Once, As
    kind: synonym
  - term: に伴って・に伴い
    meaning: As, Due,  Along with, Hand-in-hand with, Resulted in, Be consequent upon
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしたがって
    meaning: As, Following, As then, According to, In accordance with
    kind: synonym
  - term: と (quotation)
    meaning: And
    kind: synonym
  - term: と共に
    meaning: Together with, At the same time,  As well as
    kind: synonym
