grammar_point: に限ったことではない
jlpt: N1
meaning: Not limited to, Not restricted to, Not only
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Get more example sentences!: Premium users get access to 12 example sentences on all Grammar Points.
writeup: に限ったことではないis a fairly emphatic expression that, like several other grammar patterns, makes use
  of the う-Verb限る 'to limit'. It is a combination of the case-marking particle に, the past tense of限る,限った,
  the noun こと 'thing', theconjunctive formof theauxiliary verbだ, で, theadverbial particleは, and the い-Adjective,
  ない. The literal translation is 'it is not something that is limited to (A)', but other common interpretations
  include 'not only (A), but (B)', or 'not restricted to (A), (B) too'.This structure will be used following
  nouns, and tends to be reserved for fairly formal situations.This grammar pattern often indicates that
  (A) is something that is not especially rare, so should not be, or does not require to be treated in
  any special way.
examples:
  - japanese: 最近の若者は挨拶ができないと言われているが、若者に限ったことではない。
    english: It is said that young people these days can't greet people, but it is not limited to young
      people.
  - japanese: 今日に限ったことではないが、なんか仕事する気にならない。
    english: It is not limited to today, but for some reason I don't feel like working.
  - japanese: 文法が難しいのは日本語に限ったことではない。
    english: Grammar being difficult is not something that is limited to Japanese.
  - japanese: うつ病は人間に限ったことではない。動物でもうつ病と診断されることがある。
    english: Depression is not limited to humans. Even animals can be diagnosed with depression.
  - japanese: 敬語は何も日本語に限ったことではない。他言語にもあるか、または過去にあった。
    english: Honorifics are not restricted to Japanese at all. Other languages also have it, or had it
      in the past.
  - japanese: 松岡さんが宿題を忘れるのは今日に限ったことではない。
    english: Mr. Matsuoka forgetting to do his homework was not limited only to today.
  - japanese: オレオレ詐欺で騙されるのはお年寄りに限ったことではない。大人も騙される。
    english: It is not only the elderly who are deceived by the 'ore ore' scam. Adults are too.
  - japanese: 科学者によると、少子化はなにも日本に限ったことではないとのこと。すべての先進国における問題だそうだ。
    english: According to scientists, the declining birthrate is not limited to Japan at all. It seems
      that it is a problem in all developed countries.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に限ったことではない
false_friends: []
