grammar_point: 傾向がある
jlpt: N2
meaning: Tendency, Trend, Inclination
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 傾向があるis a slightly formal grammar pattern used when indicating that there is some sort of 'trend'
  or 'tendency' existing within (A). Being a combination of the noun傾向'inclination', and がある 'to have',
  the literal meaning is almost identical to the standard English interpretation.As傾向itself is a noun,
  this structure may appear after verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives followed by な, and nouns followed
  by の.Although がある is the most frequent structure seen with傾向, alternatives such as が見られる 'the trend
  of (A) can be observed' are also widely used.It should also be noted that傾向があるmay be used both in instances
  where the trend is either positve or negative.Caution -傾向があるtends to express behaviors or characteristics
  (static things that aren't actively changing), while傾向にあるfocuses more on being in a state of something
  that is ongoing or proceeding in a certain direction, such as a declining trend.
examples:
  - japanese: この国では首都に近づけば近づくほど物価が上がっていく傾向がある。
    english: In this country, there is a tendency of prices rising as you get closer to the capital.
  - japanese: 鬱で悩まされている人は気分の浮き沈みが激しい傾向がある。
    english: People suffering from depression are inclined to have severe mood swings.
  - japanese: あの会社が発売する教科書は使いやすくてユニークな傾向があると言われている。
    english: It is said that textbooks released by that company have a tendency to be user-friendly and
      unique.
  - japanese: 最近は世界中で小家族化の傾向がある。
    english: Recently, there has been a trend toward smaller families around the world.
  - japanese: 最近ではコンピューターやスマホが文字を自動変換してくれるので、漢字の書き方を忘れてしまう傾向が見られる。
    english: Recently, computers and smartphones automatically convert characters, so people tend to forget
      how to write kanji characters.
  - japanese: 日本は少子化の傾向にある。
    english: Japan is experiencing a declining birthrate. (Ongoing trend)
  - japanese: この研究によると、勤務時間が短いほうが仕事の効率がよくなる傾向にあるようだ。
    english: According to this study, shorter work hours tend to improve work efficiency. (Statistics)
  - japanese: ハイエンドスマホの需要は最近ますます低下の傾向にある。
    english: The demand for high-end smartphones has been in a declining trend recently.
  - japanese: 大人においてはどうしても他の人より自分の意見は正しいと思ってしまう傾向が見られるのだ。
    english: Adults have a tendency to think that no matter what, their opinion is correct.
  - japanese: 人間は無意識に外観で人を判断してしまう傾向が強い。
    english: People have a strong inclination to unconsciously judge others by appearance.
  - japanese: 健康問題の数量は老化とともに増加する傾向がある。
    english: The amount of health problems (that arise) has the tendency to increase with aging.
  - japanese: 年月が経つとともにこの傾向が見られるようになった。
    english: As the years passed, this trend became visible.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/傾向がある
false_friends:
  - term: きらいがある
    meaning: Have a tendency to, Tend to, Be slightly~
    kind: synonym
