grammar_point: そばから
jlpt: N1
meaning: As soon as, Right after, Even if … still
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: そばからis a combination of thenoun側'side', and thecase marking particleから 'from'. It illustrates
  something that happens immediately upon (A), and can be translated as 'as soon as (A), (B)', or 'right
  after (A), (B)'.(B) is usually something that is considered annoying, unfavorable, or somehow nullifies
  (A) by the speaker, but there are exceptions. If the more literal translation of 'from right beside
  (A), (B)' helps to remember the nuance of (B) happening straight away, then that may be a helpful way
  to memorize this construction.そばからwill follow verbs in either their dictionary or past-tense forms.Regardless
  of whether the dictionary or the past-tense form of a verb is used, asそばからmeans 'right after (A)', the
  meaning will not change at all.Cautionそばからwill almost always imply that (B) is something that always
  happens upon (A), rather than being a once-off situation.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女は約束をするそばからすぐ約束を破る。
    english: She breaks her promises as soon as she makes them.
  - japanese: 彼は注意するそばから失敗をするから、私のいうことは聞いていないんだろう。
    english: I guess he doesn't listen to me because he makes mistakes as soon as I warn him.
  - japanese: パソコンを直したそばからまた壊れてしまうから困っている。
    english: I'm having trouble with my computer because it breaks down just as soon as I fix it.
  - japanese: 早く読みすぎると読んだそばから忘れるから、もっとゆっくり読む様にしている。
    english: I try to read more slowly, because if I read too quickly, I forget as soon as I read it.
  - japanese: 車の洗車を終えるそばから、雨が降ってきた。
    english: It started to rain as soon as I was about to finish washing my car.
  - japanese: メリーさん「夢を覚えている？」 ゆめじさん「夢なんて起きたそばから忘れてしまうものだけど、夜中に起きてまた眠ると思い出す。」
    english: 'Merry: ''Do you remember your dreams?''Yumeji: ''Dreams are something I forget as soon as
      I wake up, but if I wake up in the middle of the night and go back to sleep then I remember.'''
  - japanese: 自転車は直したそばから壊れてしまう。
    english: My bike breaks as soon as I repair it.
  - japanese: あなたって人は、「やるな」と言ったそばからやるんだから。
    english: People like you are just… As soon as I told you not to do it, you still do it…
  - japanese: 教わったそばから同じ間違いをおかした。
    english: I made the same mistake as soon as I learned of it.
  - japanese: ケーキが熱いから触らないように言ったそばから こいつは～（そうした）。
    english: As soon as I told him not to touch the cake because it was hot, he… (did so).
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/そばから
false_friends: []
