grammar_point: 逆に
jlpt: N2
meaning: On the contrary
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 逆にis a grammar pattern that indicates that something is 'contrary' to what has previously been
  said. This is a structure made up of the noun逆'reverse', 'opposite', or 'converse', and に. Due to the
  inclusion of に, this phrase behaves adverbially, and will usually appear between two phrases, to indicate
  that 'on the contrary to (A), (B)', or 'conversely to (A), (B)'.In modern Japanese,逆にis also frequently
  used at the beginning of a sentence, simply to indicate a rebuttal toward something that someone has
  just said, or as a slang version of別に when asked questions about preferences, or similar things.
examples:
  - japanese: 手袋をはめた方が安全だと思うかもしれないが、手袋が回転部に巻き込まれると逆に危険なので、手袋を外してから作業をしてください。
    english: You may think it is safer to wear gloves, but on the contrary, it is dangerous because they
      could get caught in the rotating parts. So, please remove your gloves before working.
  - japanese: 近道だと思っていたのに、地図アプリで調べてみたら逆に回り道だった事がわかった。
    english: I thought that it was a shortcut, but on the contrary, I found out that it was actually a
      detour when I checked on a map app.
  - japanese: 食べやすいようにスパゲティを半分にして茹でたけど、逆に食べにくくなった。
    english: I broke the spaghetti in half to make it easier to eat, but on the contrary, it made it harder
      to eat.
  - japanese: 逆に、何歳に見えますか？
    english: On the contrary, how old do I look?
  - japanese: 逆に、ラーメンは？
    english: I don't care too much what we eat, how about ramen?
  - japanese: あの話は事実らしいが、逆に信じにくい。
    english: I heard that that story is true but on the contrary, it is hard to believe.
  - japanese: 遅刻になると思って、急いだが逆に余裕でした。
    english: I thought that I would be late and hurried, but on the contrary, I made it with plenty of
      time.
  - japanese: 病気が治りそうだったが、薬を飲まずにいると逆にひどくなった。
    english: The disease was on the verge of being healed, but I didn't take my medicine and on the contrary
      it got worse.
  - japanese: 寒いと思って厚着をして行ったら、逆に暑かった。
    english: I thought it was cold and went wearing thick clothing. On the contrary, it was hot.
  - japanese: こんな靴を履いて行って笑われるかと思ったら、逆に羨ましがられました。
    english: I thought if I went wearing shoes like these I would be laughed at, on the contrary people
      were envious of me.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/逆に
false_friends:
  - term: に反して
    meaning: Go against, Contrary to
    kind: synonym
  - term: むしろ
    meaning: Rather, Instead, Over
    kind: synonym
  - term: 却って
    meaning: All the more, On the contrary, Conversely
    kind: synonym
