grammar_point: わけにはいかない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Cannot afford to, No way, Impossible to do
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: わけにはいかないis a statement that combines わけ 'to be so', 'reason', or 'cause', with thecase marking
  particleに, theadverbial particleは, and the 'cannot go' meaning of行かない. It can be translated as 'cannot
  afford to (A)', or 'impossible to (A)'. However, the literal meaning is much closer to 'it cannot be
  so that (A)'.This structure will be used directly after the non-past form of verbs, in order to highlight
  them as being either highly undesirable, or highly unattainable.Althoughわけにはいかないprimarily highlights
  things that are undesirable, it may also highlight something that is desirable, but impossible for some
  reason. This will depend largely on the speaker's tone of voice, and context of the conversation.In
  these types of sentences, the expression is quite similar to the 'I guess it's just not meant to be
  so' nuance that can be conveyed in English, highlighting regret.
examples:
  - japanese: この料理は妻が頑張って作ってくれたやつだから不味くても食べないわけにはいかない。
    english: My wife made this food for me, so no matter how bad it tastes, it cannot be so that I won't
      eat it.
  - japanese: 明日は人手が足りないから、休むわけにはいかない。
    english: Since we are short-handed tomorrow, I cannot afford to take a day off.
  - japanese: このジャケットが欲しいけど、今月はお金を使い過ぎたから買うわけにはいかない。
    english: I want this Jacket, but because I spent too much money this month, it cannot be so that I
      buy it.
  - japanese: 先輩に誘われたから、断るわけにはいかない。
    english: I was invited by my senpai, so there is no way that I can decline the offer.
  - japanese: 僕はその問題を黙って見過ごす訳には行かない。
    english: I cannot afford to silently overlook that problem.
  - japanese: 大統領に頼まれたので断る訳には行かない。
    english: Since I was asked by the president I can't afford to say no.
  - japanese: 前回の日本語能力試験に不合格だったので、次は失敗する訳には行かない。
    english: I failed the JLPT last time, so I cannot afford to fail it a second time.
  - japanese: 前に一度、彼女との約束を破ったから、今度は破る訳には行かない。
    english: I broke a promise with her once before, so this time I cannot afford to break another.
  - japanese: それは捨てる訳には行きません。大切な人からもらったんです。
    english: I can't afford to throw it away. I got it from my special someone.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/わけにはいかない
false_friends:
  - term: ないわけにはいかない
    meaning: Can't not, No way to avoid
    kind: antonym
  - term: かねる
    meaning: Cannot, Be unable to, Hard to, Hesitant to
    kind: synonym
  - term: てはいられない
    meaning: Can't afford to, Unable to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ずにはいられない
    meaning: Cannot help doing something, Cannot resist doing something
    kind: synonym
