grammar_point: てやまない
jlpt: N1
meaning: Never cease to, Always, Sincerely, Greatly, From the bottom of one's heart
meaning_warning: ほしくてやまない is also sometimes used
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: ～てやまないis a formal construction that combines the て-form of a verb with the negative form of the
  う-Verb止む 'to cease', or 'to desist'. The literal meaning of 'to not stop (A)', or 'to not desist (A)'
  is often translated as 'to always (A)', or 'to (A) from the bottom of one's heart'. It is an expression
  that is used exclusively in relation to feelings and emotions.Common words that may be partnered with
  やまない include愛'love',敬愛'love and respect',願う 'to wish for',祈る 'to hope for',望む 'to have ambitions for',希望'wish',期待'anticipation',尊敬'respect',信じる
  'to trust', and several more. Either positive or negative emotions may be used.CautionAs やまない emphasizes
  the continuation of something,てやまないwill not be used with feelings that are temporary, such as (temporary)
  anger, or (temporary) disappointment.
examples:
  - japanese: 私が愛してやまない犬が急に体を壊したから心配でしょうがない。
    english: The dog that I love from the bottom of my heart got sick suddenly, so I am worried.
  - japanese: あんなことを親にさせてしまって後悔してやまない。
    english: I never cease to regret letting my parents do that for me.
  - japanese: 1日も早く普通の生活に戻れる様に祈ってやみません。
    english: I will never cease to pray for them to be able to return to their normal lives as soon as
      possible.
  - japanese: 上司に子供や妻のことを悪く言われて、腹が立ってやまない。
    english: I was sincerely mad at my boss for saying such things about my wife and kids. (Unnatural
      Japanese)
  - japanese: 献辞：「愛してやまない妻と息子へ」
    english: 'Dedication: ''To my wife and son, whom I will always love.'' (never cease to)'
  - japanese: 賛辞：「友達としても人としても心の中に生涯存在する尊敬してやまない人でした。」
    english: 'Eulogy: ''She was a person I greatly respected throughout my life both as a friend and as
      a human being.'' (never cease to)'
  - japanese: スピーチ：「今日こちらにお集まりになった皆様には、当社の製品紹介をお楽しみいただけるよう願ってやみません。」
    english: 'Speech: ''To all who have gathered here today, I sincerely hope that you will be able to
      enjoy the presentation of our new product.'' (never cease to)'
  - japanese: 記事：「巨大なピラミッドの信じられないほどの大きさと美しさは、建設以来何千年経っても人の心を魅了してやみません。」
    english: 'Article: ''Despite thousands of years passing since their construction, the incredible size
      and beauty of the great pyramids will never cease to capture the hearts of people.'' (always・greatly)'
  - japanese: 小説：「彼は人を惹きつけてやまない何かを持っていると言えるだろう。」
    english: 'Novel: ''One could say that he has something that greatly fascinates people.'' (never cease
      to)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てやまない
false_friends: []
