grammar_point: ないことはない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Is not impossible, It doesn't mean that it isn't
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ないことはない is an expression that utilizes either theauxiliary verbない, or theい-Adjectiveない, depending
  on what type of word it is used with. This structure may literally be translated as something similar
  to 'not (A) is not all there is'. However, the common translations are '(A) is not impossible', or 'it
  doesn't mean that it isn't (A)'.This expression may be used with the ない form of any verb,い-Adjective,
  orな-Adjective. Let's have a look at a few examples before exploring the meaning further.By itself, ことはない
  highlights something that is unneeded, or never happens. This is partly due to theadverbial particleは
  expressing something as being 'complete'. In this way, 'there is no situation in which (A)', is quite
  an accurate translation of ことはない. By adding ない to the (A) verb, allないことはないis doing is simply changing
  this nuance to 'there is -not- no situation in which (A)', a double negative expressing that (A) is
  actually possible.Fun Factないことはないoften appears with verbs in the potential form. This usually implies
  a lack of effort, or feelings of half heartedness toward the completion of (A). It is similar to 'it's
  not like I can't (A)' in English.
examples:
  - japanese: 映画は見ないことはないが、詳しくもない。
    english: It's not that I don't watch movies, but I am just not knowledgeable about them at all.
  - japanese: ここは危ないことはないけど、気をつけた方がいい。
    english: It's not that this place isn't safe, but you should be careful.
  - japanese: 元気ではないことはないけど、すごく元気なわけでもない。
    english: It doesn't mean that I am not healthy, but it is not the case that I am very fit.
  - japanese: 納豆は食べられないことはないけど、自分から買って食べようとは思わない。
    english: It's not that I don't like natto, it's just that I don't think I will buy it myself to eat.
  - japanese: 歩いていけないことはないけど、歩いたら6時間ぐらいかかるよ。
    english: It's not that you can't walk there, but if you did, it would take about six hours.
  - japanese: スクルージ：「オレはオジサンになったから新しいことを全然学べない。」 ヒューイ：「どんなに歳を取っても新しいことを学べない事はない。」
    english: 'Scrooge: ''I got old, so I can''t learn new things at all.'' Huey: ''No matter how old you
      get, it is not impossible to learn new things!'''
  - japanese: A：「お金がないから君と一緒に旅行にいけないんだ。」 B：「お金がなくても旅行に行けない事はないよ。」
    english: 'A: ''I don''t have money so I can''t go on a trip with you.'' B: ''It is not impossible
      to take a trip without any money.'''
  - japanese: A：「浅いからここで泳ごう！」 B：「浅いけど、危なくない事はない。」
    english: 'A: ''It''s shallow so let''s swim here!'' B: ''It is shallow, but that doesn''t mean that
      it isn''t dangerous.'''
  - japanese: 吉田：「あなたは誕生日ケーキをカットしてみたい？」山田：「 僕にもできない事はないけど、君がやった方がいいと思う。」
    english: 'Yoshida: ''Do you want to cut the birthday cake?''Yamada: ''It''s not that I can''t do it,
      but I think it would be better if you did it.'''
  - japanese: 清水：「昨年買ったドレスを着たら、どう？」木村：「着れない事はないが、少しサイズが小さいな。」
    english: 'Shimizu: ''What about wearing the dress you bought last year?''Kimura: ''It''s not that
      I can''t wear it, but it''s a bit too small…'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ないことはない
false_friends:
  - term: というわけではない
    meaning: It is not that, It doesn't mean that, It is not always the case
    kind: antonym
  - term: はずがない
    meaning: Hardly possible, Cannot be, Highly unlikely, Improbable
    kind: antonym
  - term: そうもない
    meaning: Very unlikely to, Does not seem that, Does not appear that
    kind: antonym
  - term: ～ない～はない
    meaning: There is not ~ that is not/does not
    kind: synonym
  - term: とは限らない
    meaning: Not necessarily so, Is not always true, There is no guarantee that
    kind: synonym
