grammar_point: 上で
jlpt: N3
meaning: After, Upon
meaning_warning: 'InA上でB: A cannot be passive'
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 上でis an expression in Japanese that is used after the past form of verbs, or nouns followed by
  の. It shows that something will happen 'after (A)', or 'upon (A)'. This grammar point is used in a similar
  way to its literal meaning, which is 'with the above/previous (A), (B)'.上as 'above', andでas 'with',
  in で's use as acase marking particle.上でis a structure that is primarily used in formal settings. Due
  to this, it will not be used in casual conversations very often. It also strongly hints at (A) being
  a requirement for (B), or (A) being something that would logically be expected before (B).CautionDue
  to上でbeing used to show logical progressions from (A) to (B), (A) cannot be a verb that is passive. Passivity
  in Japanese often implies that someone/thing has a lack of control in relation to the actions that happen
  to them/it. As a result of this, (A) not being able to be controlled would result in (B) sounding like
  it could not be planned for.This is different to the way that passivity works in English (simply showing
  that something received an action upon it).
examples:
  - japanese: この企画は社長と相談した上で、キャンセルすることに決めました。
    english: Upon consulting the CEO of the company, we have decided to cancel this project.
  - japanese: 色んな車を運転した上で、どの車を買うか決めたいと思います。
    english: Upon driving various cars, I would like to choose which car to purchase.
  - japanese: 以下の内容を確認の上で、サインをしてください。
    english: Upon confirming the details below, please sign your name.
  - japanese: 以下のリンクからログインの上、内容変更をしてください。
    english: Upon logging in from the link below, please change your information.
  - japanese: こちらの商品は医者に相談した上で、使用してください。
    english: Please use this product upon consulting with a doctor.
  - japanese: 医者に教えられた上で、使用してください。 (Unnatural)
    english: Please use this upon being told to be a doctor.
  - japanese: 家の中を見た上で、買おうと思っている。
    english: I am thinking that I will buy the house after I have seen the inside. (upon)
  - japanese: 説明書を読んだ上で、ご使用ください。
    english: Please use it after reading the instructions. (upon)
  - japanese: 変更した上で、間違いがあるかどうか確認するべきだ。
    english: After making changes, you should check whether or not there are any mistakes. (upon)
  - japanese: 妻と相談した上で、手術を受けることを決めたいと思う。
    english: I would like to make the decision about undergoing surgery, after I discuss it with my wife.
      (upon)
  - japanese: 慎重な調査の上で、被告は有罪と決定しました。
    english: Upon careful investigation, the defendant has been found guilty. (after)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/上で
false_friends:
  - term: てから
    meaning: Once...is done, Once...happens, After doing
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上に
    meaning: As well, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
  - term: たら
    meaning: When, From when, Just when, If
    kind: synonym
  - term: あとで
    meaning: After, Later
    kind: synonym
  - term: た末・の末
    meaning: After, As a conclusion of
    kind: synonym
  - term: て初めて
    meaning: For the first time, Not until, Only after, Only when, Only because
    kind: synonym
