grammar_point: てもかまわない
jlpt: N3
meaning: It doesn't matter if, I don't mind
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ても構わない is often used to express that something 'doesn't matter', or that the speaker 'doesn't
  mind'. This structure is a combination ofても(with verbs andい-Adjectives), or でも (with nouns andな-Adjectives)
  grouped with the negative conjugation of the う - Verb構う, which means 'to brace'. Literally, this expression
  can be thought of as being similar to 'to not be uptight'. However, it is almost always simply used
  to convey that there is no issue with something.ても構わないmay be used with any type of word that appears
  in itsてもor でも conjugation form.Fun Fact構う is usually translated as 'to brace', but the kanji構often has
  the nuance of 'to posture', or 'to pose' (into some type of strong/resistant shape). In theても構わないgrammar
  structure, this translates as (A) simply being something that will not cause the speaker to 'posture',
  'position', or 'pose' themselves in a resistant way.
examples:
  - japanese: 君がお金を出すなら、ピザでも寿司でも何を頼んでも構わないよ。
    english: If you are going to pay, don't be uptight about ordering pizza or sushi or anything.
  - japanese: 運転手さん、遅くても構いませんので、安全運転でお願いします。
    english: Chauffeur, I don't care if it's slower, please drive safely.
  - japanese: 仕事はどんなに大変でも構いません、仕事が出来ればうれしいです。
    english: I don't care how busy work is, I am happy so long as I can do my job.
  - japanese: アルバイト募集中。未経験者でも構いません。
    english: Hiring part time workers. It doesn't matter if you are not experienced.
  - japanese: 暇な時はゲームをやっても構わない。
    english: It doesn't matter (even) if you play games when you have free time.
  - japanese: お金が無くても構わない。だって、彼のことが大好きだから。
    english: It doesn't matter (even) if he doesn't have money, because I love him.
  - japanese: 費用はいくらかかっても構わない。とにかく買ってきてくれ。
    english: It doesn't matter how much it costs. Just go buy it for me. (even if)
  - japanese: うまくいかなくても構わない。やってみることが大切だ。
    english: It doesn't matter (even) if it won't go well. It's important to try.
  - japanese: 濡れても構いません。革靴ではないですから。
    english: I don't mind (even if) they get wet. These are not leather shoes.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てもかまわない
false_friends:
  - term: Verb + てもいい
    meaning: It's okay to, It's alright to, Can/may
    kind: synonym
  - term: てもいい
    meaning: It is alright/fine/okay even if, Can/may, ~ is also okay
    kind: synonym
  - term: でよければ
    meaning: If it is alright, If you don't mind, If you would like, If possible
    kind: synonym
