grammar_point: であれ
jlpt: N1
meaning: Even if, Even, No matter
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Functioning as an extension ofである, the formal copula that is a combination of theconjunctive
  formof theauxiliary verbだ, and the う-Verb ある,であれorであろうとwill be used in order to express strong will
  or conviction.あれ is simply theimperative formof ある, while あろうと is the positive volitional form combined
  with the case-marking particle と. Both structures are usually translated as 'even if (A), (B)', or 'no
  matter if (A), (B)'. Despite this, the more literal meaning of each is closer to 'so it's (A), (B) still
  won't be affected'. This just emphasizes the fact that (A) is of no relation to the result, like saying
  'so what if it is' in English.Bothであれandであろうとwill primarily attach to nouns in sentences that express
  some kind of question or assumption through words like どんな or たとえ.As bothであれandであろうとuse structures that
  indicate strong will, these grammar patterns will frequently be used in sentences where the speaker
  is expressing their opinions or resolutions.
examples:
  - japanese: 子供であれ、法律は守らなくてはいけない。
    english: Even if you are a child, you still need to obey the law.
  - japanese: 理由が何であれ、家族や友達を裏切るのはよくないと思う。
    english: No matter the reason, I don't think it is right to betray your family and friends.
  - japanese: いくらあなたが年上であろうと、ここでは一応私が先輩なので私の言うことに従ってください。
    english: No matter how much older you are, I am your superior here so please do as I say.
  - japanese: 上司からのメール：インフルエンザであろうと、会社にはきてください。
    english: 'Email from one''s boss: ''Even if you have the flu, please come to work.'''
  - japanese: 友人の家であれ、訪問時は靴を脱ぐことが、基本的な礼儀です。
    english: Even if it is a friend's house, taking shoes off when visiting are basic manners.
  - japanese: 小説：「どのような状況であれ、逃げることは許されない。」
    english: 'Novel: ''No matter the circumstances, running away is unforgivable.'''
  - japanese: たとえ氷のように純粋であれ、世界の悪からは免れられないだろう。
    english: Even if one is as pure as ice, it seems that one cannot avoid the evil of the world.
  - japanese: 誰であれ全ての人々は同様に死ぬ。
    english: No matter who you are, all people die similarly.
  - japanese: たとえ小さなものであれ検察官は賄賂を受け取るわけにはいかない。
    english: Even if it is just a small thing, the public prosecutor must not accept a bribe.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/であれ
false_friends:
  - term: であれ〜であれ
    meaning: Whether or, Or, No matter which, In either case
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしろ～にしろ
    meaning: Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: にせよ・にしろ
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter, Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: とはいえ
    meaning: Though, Although (I admit that), Be that as it may, Nonetheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: 何しろ
    meaning: No wonder, After all, In fact, Because, At any rate
    kind: synonym
