grammar_point: とうとう
jlpt: N4
meaning: Finally, After all
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: とうとうis an adverb that is used to express that something 'finally' happens. In Japanese, there
  are a few ways to do this, butとうとうis one of the more common. Coming from the kanji到頭, this structure
  literally means 到 (to arrive at), 頭 (the head of/crux of) something. Due to this, 'finally', and 'after
  all' are the two most common translations ofとうとう. Like many other adverbs in Japanese,とうとうis often used
  at the beginning of a phrase/sentence.Whileとうとうis written in hiragana the majority of the time, knowing
  the kanji will help when trying to remember the expression's nuance. That nuance is that something has
  'ended', usually after some sort of long journey/effort.This adverb may be used to express either positive
  or negative outcomes, as it focuses more on the time required to achieve the result, rather than the
  result being good or bad.Cautionとうとうis not used in situations where you expect something to happen/start,
  but there has not actually been a period of time in which some sort of effort was made to achieve a
  result.A good example of this is the changing of seasons. You might want to say 'finally, it's summer!',
  but this is not something that anyone has done anything to achieve. Rather, it came naturally. In these
  cases,いよいよwill be used, and has the nuance of 'finally', or 'at last' (in relation to something starting/happening).
examples:
  - japanese: とうとうお前が大学生か...
    english: So you're finally a college student... (After all this time, have you finally become a college
      student?)
  - japanese: とうとうロシアに行く。
    english: I will finally go to Russia. (After all this time, I can finally go to Russia)
  - japanese: とうとう夏休みだ！
    english: It's finally summer break! (Good result)
  - japanese: とうとう夏休みが終わる日が来た。
    english: The day that summer break ends has finally arrived. (Bad result)
  - japanese: いよいよ夏来た。
    english: Finally, summer has come. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 到頭休みだ。
    english: Finally it is my day off.
  - japanese: 到頭彼は注射をうった。
    english: He administered the shot after all. (He finally administered the shot)
  - japanese: それを到頭捨てた。
    english: I finally threw that away. (I threw that away after all)
  - japanese: 到頭漢字の勉強ができる。
    english: I can finally study kanji.
  - japanese: 到頭日本に着いた。
    english: I have finally arrived in Japan.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とうとう
false_friends:
  - term: いよいよ
    meaning: At last, Finally, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: 遂に
    meaning: Finally, At last
    kind: synonym
