grammar_point: たがる
jlpt: N4
meaning: To want to (Third person)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As we explored in our lesson aboutがる, this verb can be used with adjectives, to express the way
  in which people are acting. However, it can also be partnered with theauxiliary verbたい, to formたがる.
  This grammar construction is used when expressing that someone is acting like they 'want' to do something.To
  use this structure, attachたいto the ます stem form of any verb, then replace the い inたいwithがる.Cautionたがるis
  in contrast toてほしいwhich means 'to want someone to do (A)'. These differences will need to be practiced,
  and memorized.This is also in contrast to theい-Adjective欲しい 'to want (A)'. To describe that someone
  seems like they want something (rather than that they want to 'do' something),がるwill be paired with
  this adjective.
examples:
  - japanese: ジョンはなんでいつも悪口を言いたがるんだろう。
    english: I wonder why John always wants to talk badly about people.
  - japanese: 皆は彼が作ったケーキを食べたがる。
    english: Everyone always wants to eat the cakes that he makes.
  - japanese: 彼はこのステーキを食べたがる。
    english: He will want to eat this steak. (He will act like he wants to)
  - japanese: 彼にこのステーキを食べてほしい。
    english: I want him to eat this steak. (I want him to)
  - japanese: 田中君は新しいゲームを見つけると、そのゲームをほしがる。
    english: When Tanaka-kun sees a new game, he always wants it.
  - japanese: 彼は動物園に行きたがる。
    english: He is acting like he wants to go to the zoo.
  - japanese: 娘はいつもスポーツをしたがる。
    english: My daughter always wants to play sports.
  - japanese: 彼女は最近の映画を見たがる。
    english: My girlfriend wants to see a recently released movie.
  - japanese: あの子が帰りたがるならいいんじゃない？
    english: If that kid wants to go home, that's alright, isn't it?
  - japanese: 彼はパソコンを買いたがって、週末も働いた。
    english: He wanted to buy a PC, so (and) he even worked weekends.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たがる
false_friends:
  - term: たい
    meaning: Want to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: がほしい
    meaning: To want something, To be in need of
    kind: synonym
  - term: てほしい
    meaning: I want you to
    kind: synonym
  - term: がる
    meaning: To feel, To think, To act as if, To want, To desire
    kind: synonym
