grammar_point: ものを
jlpt: N1
meaning: But, Although, If only, I wish I had
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ものをis a grammar point that functions in a similar way to のに in that it will express that (A)
  is something that was desired, despite (B) being the actual result. However, it is primarily used when
  the speaker is trying to convey their displeasure at the result of (B), due to (A) being something that
  by all means should have happened.ものをwill be translated as 'if only (A)', or '(A), but (B)'. Despite
  being a construction of もの and theadverbial particleを,ものをis often considered as a standaloneconjunction
  particle. It can be seen following verbs or い-Adjectives in theirstandard form, or な-Adjectives followed
  by な.As can be seen in the above examples,ものをis almost always preceded by hypothetical structures such
  as ば at some point leading up to its use.Cautionものをwill often be seen at the end of sentences, with
  what would have come after it being left unspoken. In these cases, the important information is still
  there, as the (A) part of the sentence will always highlight what the ideal result was. Because of this,
  it can be safely assumed that the speaker is just frustrated that (A) didn't happen.Fun FactTheadverbial
  particleを is often used this way in Japanese, where no specific action is linked to it. In these situations
  it usually just indicates an ideal or goal to which the method of achieving it (the verb that would
  usually be attached to を) is omitted. ものを can be thought of as an extension of this in literally meaning
  'to that which was (A)', with 'I wish it had happened' being unsaid.
examples:
  - japanese: もっと早くに歯医者に行けば歯を抜かずに済んだものを...
    english: If you went to the dentist earlier, they wouldn't have had to remove your tooth, but…
  - japanese: 目を合わせなかったら止められなかったものを、なんで警察なんかと目を合わせちゃうんだ。
    english: If only you didn't make eye contact with the police, we wouldn't have been stopped, so why
      did you have to go and make eye contact with them?
  - japanese: アレルギーなどがあったなら、さきに言ってくれればいいものを...
    english: If you had an allergy, you should have let me know beforehand, but…
  - japanese: 「手伝って」って言えばいいものを、一人でやるからこう言う目に会うんだよ。
    english: If you have just asked for help, but because you did it alone, it ended up like this.
  - japanese: みんなでやれば簡単なものを...
    english: It would have been easy if we all worked on it together, but…
  - japanese: 道具を使えば楽なものを、わざわざ自分の力でやろうとするから怪我をするんだよ。
    english: It would have been easier if you used tools, but because you went out of your way to try
      it without any tools, you ended up getting hurt.
  - japanese: 素直に認めていればいいものを...
    english: I should have just been honest, but… (I should have just been honest, but instead I continued
      to lie)
  - japanese: 政治ポスター：日本を前へ。
    english: 'Political poster: Japan forward. (Verb omitted but obvious from context, the positive improvement
      of Japan)'
  - japanese: かみやま：「その不良学生が僕の鉛筆を食わなかったら入学試験を受けていたはずのもんを...（食ったから、受けられなかった）」
    english: 'Kamiyama: ''If that delinquent hadn''t eaten my pencil, I would have taken the school entrance
      exam for sure, but… (He has eaten it, so I couldn''t)'''
  - japanese: 犯罪コメディ映画、トニー：「まったく、ボリス、おとなしく死んでおればいいものを...」
    english: 'Crime comedy movie, Tony: ''Dear God, Boris, it would have been good if you had just shut
      up and died, but…'''
  - japanese: 「もっと早くタバコをやめれば健康問題なしに済んだものを、手遅れになってしまった。」
    english: '''If I had quit smoking much earlier I would have ended up without any health problems,
      but now it is too late.'''
  - japanese: 父は息子に言う：「RINEでメッセージをしてくれたら迎えに行ってあげたもんを...
    english: 'Father speaking to his son: ''If you had messaged me on Rine, I would have picked you up,
      but… (you didn''t).'''
  - japanese: 「彼が君に謝ったのなら許すべきものを、子供じゃあるまいし、無視するなんてひどすぎるよ。」
    english: '''You are not a child! If he is apologizing, you should forgive him, but ignoring him is
      too cruel!'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ものを
false_friends: []
