grammar_point: かなり
jlpt: N3
meaning: Quite, Considerably, Pretty, Fairly
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: かなりis an adverb that is used to convey a 'considerable' amount of something. It is often translated
  as 'quite', 'fairly', 'considerably', or 'pretty'.かなりwill almost always appear directly before a phrase,
  or directly before a noun (in which case の will come between the noun and かなり).Fun Factかなりoriginally
  came from可也, and more recently可成. Both of these expressions mean something similar to 'to become undeniable',
  with the former structure using an older kanji for 'to become'也.かなりis still used this way today, highlighting
  that the amount/existence of something has reached a point that cannot be denied.かなりmay be seen with
  this meaning when carrying either positive and negative connotations.
examples:
  - japanese: 今月もかなりお金を使ったね。
    english: This month we used a considerable amount of money again, didn't we?
  - japanese: 今日は一日中仕事をしていたからかなり疲れた。
    english: Because I was working all day today, I am pretty tired.
  - japanese: メキシコまではかなりの距離があるから、船で行くより飛行機で行った方が早くつく。
    english: Since there is a considerable distance to Mexico, you will get there quicker if you go by
      airplane, rather than by boat.
  - japanese: 昨日の事故でかなりの人が怪我をした。
    english: Quite a lot of people got hurt in the accident yesterday.
  - japanese: 初めて作ったの？かなり美味しいよ！
    english: You made it for the first time? It's pretty good!
  - japanese: かなり痛いです。骨が折れていると思いますか？
    english: It's quite painful. Do you think a bone is broken?
  - japanese: 友達との話、地図を見て：「ここはかなり遠くの方だね。」
    english: 'Chat between friends, after looking at the map: ''This place is quite far away, isn''t it?'''
  - japanese: 会社の社長：「新しいシステムを導入しよう。」社員：「わかりました。でも、かなり費用がかかりそうですよ。」
    english: 'Company president: ''Let''s adopt the new system.''Company employee: ''Understood. However,
      it seems to be quite expensive.'''
  - japanese: 配送会社、労働者1：「じゃあ、はやくこれ、(トラックに）積んでしまおう。」労働者2：「でもこれ、かなり重いんだけど。」
    english: 'Transport company, worker 1: ''Well then, let''s quickly load it on the truck.''Worker 2:
      ''But it is quite heavy…'''
  - japanese: 文法ちゃん：「ユーザーさんの日本語は、かなり上級レベルだと思う。」
    english: 'Bunpou-chan: ''I think that User-san''s Japanese is of quite a high level.'''
  - japanese: 従業員の噂話：「次長は、家ではお孫さんに優しいおじいちゃんらしいよ。そんな風に見えないけどね。会社ではかなり厳しい人だから。」
    english: 'Employees gossiping: ''I heard that the vice-director is a gentle grandpa who is sweet to
      his grandchild at home. He doesn''t look like that though, right? Because he is fairly strict at
      the company.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かなり
false_friends: []
