grammar_point: にして①
jlpt: N1
meaning: At, Over, In, Only (after, when, or because)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When the case-marking particle に is combined with the て-form of する, it often carries the meaning
  of 'at (A)', 'over (A)', or 'only when (A)'. This nuance is used when (A) is something that is a fairly
  high level, or some point that would be considered a prime example for any given topic.にしてmay appear
  following counters, or standard nouns.Whileにしてmarks (A) as some particular exemplar, what follows may
  either be something that is or is not considered befitting of that example. In this way, (B) generally
  describes something that either does or does not fulfill the expectations of (A), and perhaps why.It
  is common to seeにしてfollowed by grammar patterns such as ようやく 'finally', or初めて 'only when'. These function
  to emphasizeにしてeven further as being a point from which something is achieved or attained.Fun FactJust
  like other structures that make use of the various conjugations of にする,にしてindicates something that has
  been decided upon, or is being accepted as a fact from which a new condition will arise, or has arisen.
examples:
  - japanese: 30歳にして初めて海外旅行に行った。
    english: At the age of 30, I traveled abroad for the first time.
  - japanese: ５回目にしてやっと資格を取ることができた。
    english: I was finally able to get my qualification only after my fifth try.
  - japanese: 犯人たちは道を曲がって、一瞬にして暗闇の中へと消えた。
    english: The perpetrators turned off the road and disappeared into the darkness in an instant.
  - japanese: 50歳にしてようやく、イタリアに住んでいる従兄弟の家に行くことができた。
    english: At age 50, I was finally able to visit my cousin who lives in Italy.
  - japanese: 母は60歳にして初めて、コンサートに行ったらしい。
    english: My mother went to a concert for the first time at the age of 60.
  - japanese: 今にして思えばあの頃５ドルでビットコインを売るのは間違った決定だったかも。
    english: When I think about it now, selling bitcoin for 5 dollars at that time might have been a bad
      decision. (only (after/when/because)）
  - japanese: 釈迦は２９歳にして初めて、宮殿を出た。
    english: Buddha left the palace for the first time at the age of 29. (only (after/when/because)）
  - japanese: 彼はバブルがはじけたことにより一夜にして破産者となった。
    english: Due to the bubble burst, he went bankrupt overnight. (only (after/when/because)）
  - japanese: 小説、語り手：「ミステリアスなその見知らぬ人は、一瞬にして二人の暗殺者を同時に殺してしまった。」
    english: 'A novel, narrator: ''The mysterious stranger, in a moment, killed two assassins at once.''
      (only (after/when/because)）'
  - japanese: ふうかはあきつき氏夫妻の結婚２０年目にして初めて授かった長女だった。
    english: Fuuka was the first daughter that the Akitsuki couple was blessed with in the 20th year of
      their marriage. (only (after/when/because)）
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にして1
false_friends: []
