grammar_point: ていく
jlpt: N4
meaning: To ~ and go, To go on, To start
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: This grammar construction is a mix of the conjunction particle て , and the verb 行 く 'to go'.
  To use this grammar point, you will need to attach て to any verb, and then follow it with いく.This nuance
  is usually that '(A) happened and then went', or 'will happen, and then go'. In other words, it will
  depend on whether いく is in present, or past tense.ていく can be used when representing time, or when representing
  a physical place. When representing a physical place, it is more likely that the kanji structure, 行
  く will be used. However, this is not a set rule, and depends on the writer.When used in relation to
  time, the nuance is usually that something has already started/is about to start, and then will continue
  to progress in the same way.This is the opposite of てくる , which indicates that something has finally
  reached a certain state, after progressing in that way for some time.Fun FactWhen compared to English,
  ていく is very similar to the phrase 'to go on to (A)', in relation to time. It focuses on the fact that
  the speaker is required to make some type of journey to arrive at a specific point. For example, 'She
  went on to become a doctor after university'.
examples:
  - japanese: 大きい音で、鳥が飛んでいく。
    english: With a loud noise, the birds will fly away. (fly and go)
  - japanese: これを先生に持っていってください。
    english: Please take this to the teacher. (hold and go)
  - japanese: 友達にプレゼントを買っていく。
    english: I am going to buy a present and take it to my friend. (buy and go)
  - japanese: 大丈夫！お弁当を持っていくから。
    english: It's okay! Because I will take a lunch (bento) with me. (hold and go)
  - japanese: 今日はテストを受けるから鉛筆を持っていく。
    english: Because I am going to take a test today, I will take a pencil. (hold and go)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ていく
false_friends:
  - term: へいく
    meaning: To go to, To head toward
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb + にいく
    meaning: To go ~, To go in order to ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: はじめる
    meaning: To start, To begin to
    kind: synonym
  - term: てくる
    meaning: To come to, To become, To continue, To be starting to, Has been ~ing
    kind: synonym
