grammar_point: からして
jlpt: N2
meaning: Even..., Judging from, Based on
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: からしてis a combination of the conjunction particle から 'from', and the て-form of する. It is used
  to express when the speaker is making a partially objective opinion about (A). This frequently comes
  across as 'judging from (A)', or 'based on (A)'. The literal meaning is 'going from (A), (B)'. This
  simply highlights that (A) is the only information or method available from which an assessment can
  be made, so 'going from that information, (B) can be said', or 'going with that method, (B) can be said'.からしてwill
  appear directly after the noun which indicates either the method or information from which a judgment
  will then be made.Asからしてis partially objective, this just means that the speaker does not have the full
  information available to say anything with certainty, and is therefore making a guess about (A) based
  purely on what appears to be true. Due to this,からしてsentences often have the nuance of 'from the available
  piece of information about (A), (B) is likely the whole picture'.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼の性格からして、彼と一緒に住むことは無理だろう。
    english: Based on his personality, it is probably impossible for me to live with him.
  - japanese: 値段からして、このお店は新鮮な食材を使っているに違いない。
    english: Based on the price, this restaurant must be using fresh ingredients.
  - japanese: このゲームは名前からしてつまらなそうだ。
    english: Judging from the name, this game seems boring.
  - japanese: このスープは匂いからして美味しそうだ。
    english: Judging from this soup's smell, it seems delicious.
  - japanese: 私の給料からして一軒家を買うことは難しいだろう。
    english: Based on my salary, buying a house would be difficult, wouldn't it. (judging from)
  - japanese: 彼女は服装からして若そうだが、実は５０歳だ。
    english: Judging from her attire, she looks young, but actually, she is 50 years old.
  - japanese: あの演奏からして、彼は楽器のプロだ。
    english: Judging from that performance, he is a professional with that instrument.
  - japanese: カロリーからして、このお菓子を全部食べたら必ず太りますよ。
    english: Judging from the calories, if you eat all of these snacks, you will definitely get fat.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/からして
false_friends:
  - term: から見ると
    meaning: From the point of view of, By the look of
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしたら
    meaning: From the point of view of
    kind: synonym
  - term: に応じて
    meaning: Depending or based on, According to, In response to, Suitable for or to,
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことから
    meaning: From the fact that
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしては
    meaning: (Even) considering, (Even) for
    kind: synonym
  - term: からすると・からすれば
    meaning: Judging from, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: ところを見ると
    meaning: Judging from, Seeing that
    kind: synonym
  - term: にもとづいて
    meaning: Based on, In accordance with
    kind: synonym
