grammar_point: なければいけない
jlpt: N4
meaning: Must do, Have to do
meaning_warning: Verb[ない]+と+いけない/ならないis also used to express duty or necessity.
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Likeなくてはいけない,なければいけないis a structure that implies that something 'must be done'. However, it is
  important to remember that this is actually a double negative, and therefore means 'If (A) is not done,
  it cannot go', or more simply '(A) cannot not be done'.To make this construction, theauxiliary verbない
  will need to be conjugated withば, creatingなければ(if not). After this,いけない(to not be able to go) will be
  added to the end.As learned in theなきゃlesson,なければmay be shortened toなきゃ. This structure is frequently
  used either with or without the addedいけない.CautionWhileいけない(to not be able to go) and ならない (to not become)
  are quite similar, ならない will rarely be used outside of formal situations, or in writing. Due to this,いけないwill
  be heard much more frequently in speech (when it is not omitted).
examples:
  - japanese: 来月に友達の結婚式に行かなければいけない。
    english: Next month, I have to go to my friend's wedding. (Not going to the wedding is not going to
      work)
  - japanese: 車は駐車場に止めなければいけない。
    english: Cars have to be parked in parking lots. (Not being parked in a parking lot is unacceptable)
  - japanese: ここで話している場合じゃない。息子を迎えに行かなきゃ。
    english: This is not the time to talk here, I have to go pick up my son.
  - japanese: 宿題で、調べなきゃいけない事があるから、パソコン貸して。
    english: Since I need to look up something for my homework, would you please lend me your computer?
  - japanese: 仕事に行かなければいけない。
    english: I have to go to work.
  - japanese: 冬になったら、暖房をつけなければいけません。
    english: When winter comes, I will have to turn on the heater.
  - japanese: 覚えにくいけど、覚えなければいけません。
    english: It is difficult to remember, but I must remember.
  - japanese: 兄みたいに大学に行かなければいけないと言われました。
    english: I was told that I have to go to college like my older brother.
  - japanese: 頭が痛すぎて、薬を飲まなければいけない。
    english: My head hurts so much that I must take (drink) medicine.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なければいけない
false_friends:
  - term: てはいけない
    meaning: Must not, May not
    kind: antonym
  - term: べきではない
    meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
    kind: antonym
  - term: てはならない
    meaning: Must not, Cannot, Should not
    kind: antonym
  - term: なくてはいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくちゃ・なきゃ
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくてはならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないと
    meaning: Must, Have to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ねばならない
    meaning: Must, Have to, Should
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
