grammar_point: 一方で
jlpt: N3
meaning: On the other hand, At the same time, While
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 一方でis a combination of thenoun一方'one direction', and thecase marking particleで, in its nuance
  as 'at'. Together, they are used in a similar way to aconjunction particle, carrying the meaning of
  'on the other hand', 'at the same time', or 'while'.一方でmay be used after theattributive formof other
  words, or at the beginning of new phrases.As一方でhas a literal meaning similar to 'at the (A) side', or
  'in the (A) direction', it is expressing that another direction also exists, which may then be compared
  or contrasted with (A).CautionDo not confuse一方で, with一方だ(or で in its conjunctive form). The expression
  that uses the で particle means 'at one direction/side', while the expression that utilizes theauxiliary
  verbだ (or で in its conjunctive form) means 'in one direction'.The overall context of the sentence will
  usually reveal whether the conjunctive form of だ (で) is being used, or the actual で particle.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は晴れる一方で、明日から2週間降り続ける。
    english: While today will be sunny, it will continue to rain for 2 weeks starting tomorrow.
  - japanese: この猫は可愛い一方で、人を噛む癖があるので気をつけてください。
    english: This cat is cute, but on the other hand, it has a habit of biting people, so please be careful.
  - japanese: 田舎の日中は静かな一方で、夜には虫やカエルの鳴き声が朝まで聞こえる。
    english: The countryside is very quiet during the daytime, but on the other hand, you can hear the
      insects and the frogs from night through to morning.
  - japanese: 彼は歌手である一方で、政治家でもある。
    english: He is a singer, while at the same time, a politician.
  - japanese: 一方で、長野県では夏祭りが開催される。
    english: On the other hand, the summer festival will be held in Nagano Prefecture. (The previous sentence
      would have had some contradictory information)
  - japanese: 私のお金は貯まっていく一方で、彼のお金は減っていくばかりです。
    english: My savings is increasing, on the other hand, his savings continue to decline.
  - japanese: 毎月お金が減っていく一方で、全然貯まりそうもない。
    english: Every month I keep losing money, and it doesn't even seem like it will increase.
  - japanese: この靴は、温かい一方で、重いです。
    english: These shoes are warm but on the other hand they are heavy.
  - japanese: あの食べ物は体に良い一方で、食べ過ぎたら、体に悪い。
    english: On the one hand, that food is good for your body. On the other hand, if you eat too much,
      it is bad for you.
  - japanese: 彼の会社が儲かる一方で、うちの会社は経営状態が悪化している。
    english: His company seems to be profitable, but, on the other hand, the condition of our administration
      is growing worse.
  - japanese: 友人たちがスキーを楽しむ一方で、私は働かなくてはいけない。
    english: My friends are having a fun time skiing, but I, on the other hand, have to work.
  - japanese: 会社ではいい上司だが、その一方で、家では酒乱だ。
    english: He is a good boss at the company, but, at the same time, he is a violent drunk at home.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/一方で
false_friends:
  - term: 一方だ
    meaning: More and more, Continue to, Keep on, -er and -er
    kind: synonym
  - term: かたわら
    meaning: While, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
  - term: 反面
    meaning: While, On the other hand, Although, However, On the flip side
    kind: synonym
