grammar_point: ものか
jlpt: N2
meaning: Definitely not, Absolutely not, Impossible, Do you really think~?
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ものかis a set expression in Japanese that is used to strongly suggest that the previous statement
  absolutely will not happen, or is definitely not true. It is a combination of the noun もの 'thing', and
  theadverbial particleuse of か for conveying 'doubt' or 'uncertainty'. Common translations include 'definitely
  not (A)', 'absolutely not (A)', and 'do you really think that (A)'. Literally, the meaning is quite
  close to 'as if' in English, as ものか just poses a strong question to which the speaker already completely
  disagrees with.ものかmay appear after any word that could attach to もの, such as a verbs and い-Adjectives,
  or な-Adjectives and nouns followed by な.Other forms which may be seen areもんか,もんですか, andものですか, with women
  being more traditionally likely to use theもんですかandものですかvariants.Additionally, when following the た form
  of verbs,ものかwill imply that the speaker cannot bear for (A) to eventuate, due to evaluating it as something
  highly negative.Caution - There are several other situations in whereものかwill be used, but in each of
  them it may be easiest to think of the primary translation as being 'as if (A)', as it merely implies
  the speakers shock or disbelief in relation to whatever conditions are presented in the previous statement.
  These 'conditions' may involve an amount, possibility, or result of (A).
examples:
  - japanese: バカ言うな。俺がそんな派手な服を着るものか！
    english: Don't be stupid! Do you really think that I would wear something so flashy?!
  - japanese: 仕事？毎日怒られてばかりだから楽しいもんか。
    english: Work? I get yelled at everyday, so I am definitely not having a good time.
  - japanese: 私は毎日残業しているし、家に帰ったら家事を全部やっている。元気なものか。
    english: I work overtime every day and when I get home I do all the chores. Do you really think I
      have any energy left?
  - japanese: お前みたいな奴は友達なものか！
    english: A person like you is absolutely not my friend!
  - japanese: 一人でこの量の仕事を明日までにできたもんか。
    english: As if it's possible to do this amount of work by tomorrow myself.
  - japanese: こんなまずい飯、食べられたもんか。
    english: As if I could have eaten something so awful.
  - japanese: 永井：「長谷川さんって伊藤と付き合っているらしい。」 長谷川：「違うよ！伊藤さんと付き合うものか！」
    english: 'Nagai: ''Hasegawa-san, I heard that you are going out with Itou-san.'' Hasegawa: ''No! I
      am absolutely not going out with him!'''
  - japanese: 失恋なんて、経験のない君にわかるもんか！
    english: You, who has never experienced something like a broken heart, absolutely won't understand
      it!
  - japanese: 井上：「あなたの男友達が家の前で待っている。」 本田：「彼が何をしようが、かまうものか！」
    english: 'Inoue: ''Your male friend is waiting in front of your house.'' Honda: ''I absolutely do
      not care what he is doing!'''
  - japanese: 彼が皮肉なんて言うものか。そういう奴じゃない。
    english: He absolutely will not use sarcasm. He is not that kind of a person.
  - japanese: 今から行ったって日の出になんか間に合うものか。
    english: If we start now we absolutely will not make it in time for sunrise.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ものか
false_friends:
  - term: どころではない
    meaning: This is not the time for…, Far from, Out of the question
    kind: synonym
  - term: どころか
    meaning: Far from, Anything but
    kind: synonym
  - term: はずがない
    meaning: Hardly possible, Cannot be, Highly unlikely, Improbable
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことか
    meaning: How…, What..., God knows...
    kind: synonym
