grammar_point: し～し
jlpt: N4
meaning: And, Giving reasons
meaning_warning: The last し in a sentence can be replaced with から or ので
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Likeて,しis aconjunction particle. This means that it is used for linking the (A) and (B) parts
  of a sentence, and describing that link in some way. The 'description' thatしwill highlight is 'reasons'.
  Regularly it is translated simply as 'and'.しmay be connected to the end of almost any word, but will
  require aだbefore it when it comes after nouns orな-Adjectives.しwill follow every 'reason' that is being
  listed in a sentence. However, the lastしmay be replaced withからorので, before the 'result' is stated.Usingしwill
  indicate that each 'reason' being listed is of equal weight/importance. Because of this, it would not
  be appropriate to use in sentences where one of the reasons clearly far outweighs everything else.Fun
  FactIn all of its uses,しindicates things that are矛盾無く共存する, which basically means 'things that coexist,
  without contradicting each other'. This is the primary reason why each thing listed must be of equal
  importance (in terms of the overall story that the speaker is trying to convey).
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女はピアノが弾けるし、スポーツができるし、彼女に出来ないことはないと思う。
    english: She can play the piano and she can do sports. I think there isn't anything she can't do.
  - japanese: このレストランは高いし、まずいし、何もいいところがない。
    english: This restaurant is expensive and doesn't taste good. There are no good parts.
  - japanese: 彼は真面目だし、親切だし、彼と友達でよかった。
    english: He is serious and nice. I am glad that he is my friend.
  - japanese: 今日は休みだし、晴れだし、今日は公園に行こう。
    english: Today is my day off, and it's sunny, so let's go to the park.
  - japanese: 昨日は雨が降ってたし、おばあちゃんも亡くなったし、悲しいな。
    english: It was raining yesterday and my grandmother also passed away, so I'm sad. (Unnatural Japanese,
      as the level of sadness between losing your grandmother, and it being a rainy day would be completely
      different)
  - japanese: 彼は掃除ができるし、料理も作れるし、結婚してよかった。
    english: He can clean and cook (among other things). I am glad that I married him.
  - japanese: この赤が可愛いし、デザインがいいし、この帽子を買いたい。
    english: This red is cute and the design is good (among other things). I want to buy this hat!
  - japanese: 彼女は親切だし、綺麗だし、本当に大好き。
    english: She is kind and beautiful (among other things). I really love her.
  - japanese: この近所は治安がいいし、スーパーが近いし、人が優しいからここに住んでみたい。
    english: This neighborhood is safe and the store is close and the people are nice, so I wouldn't mind
      living here.
  - japanese: 僕は全然やりたくないし、やることが多すぎるし、諦めようと思っています。
    english: I have absolutely no desire to do it and there are too many things to do (among other things),
      (so) I am thinking about giving up.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/し-し
false_friends:
  - term: とか～とか
    meaning: Among other things, For example, Such as
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上に
    meaning: As well, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
  - term: から (because)
    meaning: Because, Since
    kind: synonym
  - term: ので
    meaning: Because, So, Since, The reason being
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb[て] + B①
    meaning: And・and so, Due to, Because of, Since, Conjunctive
    kind: synonym
  - term: Adjective + て + B
    meaning: And..., Both and (Conjunctive)
    kind: synonym
