grammar_point: なんか・なんて
jlpt: N3
meaning: Such as, Things like, Emphasis
meaning_warning: Notice that なんか generally follows nouns
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: なんかis an expression in Japanese that is frequently associated with theadverbial particleなど. They
  are thought to have overlapping meanings in many circumstances, andなんかitself may be considered anadverbial
  particle.なんてis an extension of this, and may be considered an abbreviation of などという 'to say something
  like'.Both なんか and なんて are used in the same way asなど, having translations like 'such as', and 'things
  like' in English. The primary difference between なんか and なんて is that なんて is far more common after用言(conjugatable
  words). This includes verbs,い-Adjectives, andな-Adjectives. On the other hand,なんかis almost exclusively
  used after体言(unconjugatable words). In other words, nouns.Despite the体言and用言tendency, most native speakers
  will not consider it incorrect to use eitherなんかorなんてwith any type of word.Fun FactBothなんかandなんてare often
  used to show a low evaluation of the word that they follow. This can come across as humility when used
  in relation to oneself, or as an insult when used in relation to others.Don't let this point stop you
  from usingなんかorなんてthough, as many native speakers use it simply to fill the silence in modern Japanese.
examples:
  - japanese: こんな嵐の中走るなんて、頭おかしいんじゃない。
    english: You are going to do something like run in the storm? You must be crazy.
  - japanese: 北海道がこんなに寒いなんておもわなかった。
    english: I didn't think Hokkaido would be this cold or anything.
  - japanese: 心配なんてしている場合じゃない。
    english: This is no time for things such as worrying.
  - japanese: テレビなんか叩けばだいたい直るだろ。
    english: Things like TV's will be fixed most of the time if you hit them, right?
  - japanese: 私なんか5年間スペイン語の勉強をしているのにまだ全然会話ができないです。 (Humility)
    english: I have studied Spanish for 5 years, but I can't speak it at all yet.
  - japanese: お前なんてどうせ、家でゴロゴロしているだけだろ。 (Insult)
    english: Someone like you probably just loafs around the house, don't you?
  - japanese: 酷いことを言ったのは分かるんだけど、なんか、情熱的になって言っちゃった。
    english: I am aware that I said something mean, but, you know, I said it because I got emotional.
  - japanese: あの強いチームに勝つなんて思わなかった。
    english: Things like winning against that good team didn't even cross my mind.
  - japanese: 紹介なんていりません。自分で恋人を見つけます。
    english: I don't need things like referrals. I can find my own lover.
  - japanese: 私が太っているなんて言わないで。
    english: Don't say things like I am fat.
  - japanese: 嘘なんかつかないよ。信じてよ。
    english: I would never do something like lie to you. Trust me.
  - japanese: 雨なんかに負けている場合じゃないですよ。
    english: Now is not the time to give in to something like rain.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なんか-なんて
false_friends:
  - term: って (quotation)
    meaning: As for, Speaking of, Casual は (Sentence topic marker)
    kind: synonym
  - term: といった
    meaning: Such as, Like, So much as
    kind: synonym
  - term: など
    meaning: Such as, Things like, Etc., And so on
    kind: synonym
  - term: とか～とか
    meaning: Among other things, For example, Such as
    kind: synonym
  - term: こそ
    meaning: For sure, For certain, Even more so, Underlined or bolded text
    kind: synonym
