grammar_point: 如く・如き・如し
jlpt: N1
meaning: Like, Similar to, As if, The same as
meaning_warning: よう is now used in most situations except some fixed phrases
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 如し is an classical auxiliary verb in Japanese which has a very similar meaning to its modern
  equivalent, よう 'manner of'. Just like よう, ごとし (written primarily in hiragana) focuses on the appearance
  of (A) based on observation. Due to this, ごとし may be translated as 'like (A)', 'similar to (A)', or
  'as if it were (A)'.ごとし is the base form of this auxiliary verb , but ごとく (the conjunctive form ), and
  ごとき (the attributive form ) will also be seen. As only ごとき is attributive, it may be followed directly
  by other nouns, while ごとし most often comes at the end of sentences. ごとく acts as an adverb when preceding
  verbs, but may also be seen before breaks in clauses. Let's look at a few examples of each form.Like
  よう, ごとし and its variations will follow の when coming after a noun. However, it will follow が when coming
  after a verb.As ごとし is old-fashioned, it will primarily be encountered in books, rather than in speech.Fun
  FactThe kanji 如 itself has a meaning very similar to the word 'likeness' in English, indicating something
  that resembles (A) in every sense of the word, but is not actually (A). This kanji can be seen in several
  common words in Japanese such as 如何 'how'.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女の動きはバレリーナの如し。
    english: Her movements are like those of a ballet dancer.
  - japanese: ガンダルフの如き英雄はたんと無い。
    english: There are not many heroes like Gandalf.
  - japanese: ウサイン・ボルトの如く走る。
    english: He runs like Usain Bolt.
  - japanese: 忍者についての小説：「カツラが疾風の如く庭を駆け巡り、塀を飛び越えていった。」
    english: 'A novel about ninja: ''Katsura ran through the garden like a swift wind and jumped over
      the wall.'''
  - japanese: 葬儀のスピーチ：「子供の頃、おじさんが「光陰矢の如し」とよく言っていました。その意味が、今やっとわかるようになってきた気がします。」
    english: 'Funeral speech: ''When I was a kid, my uncle used to say ''time flies like an arrow.'' Now
      I feel like I''m finally starting to understand the meaning of it.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/如く-如き-如し
false_friends:
  - term: ままに (as desired)
    meaning: As is, While remaining, Left in a state
    kind: synonym
