grammar_point: とはいえ
jlpt: N1
meaning: Though, Although (I admit that), Be that as it may, Nonetheless
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: とは言えis one of the standard grammar patterns in Japanese that makes use of theimperative formin
  order to strongly state a point. It will often be translated as 'although (A), (B) will not change',
  or 'be that as it may, (B)'. Literally, it is just making use of the case-marking particle と in addition
  to theadverbial particleは to present (A) as a quote that the speaker acknowledges, but may not actually
  accept.As this structure begins with と, it may be used at the end of any standard statement.In most
  situations, the way thatとはいえwill be used is like the English 'say that it is (A), that still doesn't
  change (B)'. (A) will generally be something that is true, or true as far as the speaker knows.
examples:
  - japanese: この事件の犯人が分かったとはいえ、犯人はまだ捕まっていないからまだ油断はできない。
    english: Although the culprit in this case has been found, we can't let our guard down yet because
      the culprit has not been caught yet.
  - japanese: このパソコンは新しいといえ、今持っているパソコンより性能がいいと言うわけではない。
    english: Although this computer is new, it does not mean that it has better features than the computer
      that I already own.
  - japanese: この国は安全だといえ、日本ではないので子供から目を離さないようにしてください。
    english: Although this country is safe, it is not Japan, so please keep an eye on your child.
  - japanese: 日本人とはいえ、スペインで育ったから日本語があまり話せない。
    english: Although I am Japanese, I grew up in Spain so I can't speak much Japanese.
  - japanese: 犯人は逮捕されたとは言え有罪と宣告されるまで時間がかかるだろう。
    english: Although (I admit that) the criminal has been caught, it will be some time before they are
      declared guilty. (be that as it may)
  - japanese: 馬は肉を食べることができる。とは言え、普通は食べない。
    english: Horses are perfectly capable of eating meat. Having said that, they generally do not eat
      it. (be that as it may)
  - japanese: 彼は社長とは言え名前ばかりだ。権限は取締役会にある。
    english: Although he is admittedly the company president, it is in name only. It is the board of directors
      that holds the power. (be that as it may)
  - japanese: 論文：「この場合、「ようだ」と「ごとし」のどちらを使ってもよいということである。しかしながら、どちらも使えるとは言え、実際には意味合いが異なる。」
    english: 'Thesis: ''In this case, one can use both ''ようだ'' and ''ごとし.'' However, although I say you
      can use both, their meanings actually have different nuances.'' (be that as it may)'
  - japanese: 今では、パンデミックの進行状況は遅いとは言え、まだ安心するわけにはいかない。
    english: Although (I admit that) the progress of the pandemic is slow, we cannot afford to feel at
      ease just yet. (be that as it may)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とはいえ
false_friends:
  - term: にせよ・にしろ
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter, Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしろ～にしろ
    meaning: Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: であれ
    meaning: Even if, Even, No matter
    kind: synonym
  - term: であれ〜であれ
    meaning: Whether or, Or, No matter which, In either case
    kind: synonym
