grammar_point: それで
jlpt: N4
meaning: Because of that, So?, And then?, Therefore, With that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Likeそれに,それでis anotherconjunctionthat is regularly considered to be one word in Japanese, but
  is more correctly just a combination of thepronounそれ, and thecase marking particleで.The thing thatそれis
  'substituting' for is the entire clause/sentence that came before it, whileでhighlights that 'with that',
  or 'by means of that'. In this way, it translates to 'therefore', 'because of that', or 'with that'
  where 'that' is the previous information.それでis frequently used at the beginning of a second sentence,
  to highlight the information from the first.CautionYou may also seeそれでは.でin this case is theconjunctive
  formofだ(the auxiliary verb). Due to this, the meaning is closer to 'well then', 'in that case', or 'if
  so'. Thisではis also frequently shortened toじゃ.
examples:
  - japanese: 私は子供のころにお医者さんに命を救われた。それで医者になろうと思った。
    english: A doctor saved my life when I was a child. Due to that, I became determined to be a doctor.
  - japanese: 彼は電車の中で痴漢をした。それで彼は警察に捕まった。
    english: He groped someone on the train. As a result of that, he got arrested by the cops.
  - japanese: サリーは世界中のほとんどの国に行ったことがある。それで旅行会社で働くことにした。
    english: Sally has been to most countries in the world. Because of that, she decided to work at a
      travel agency.
  - japanese: それでは、会議を始めます。
    english: Well then, I will start the meeting.
  - japanese: それじゃミクは来ないの？
    english: In that case, Miku, are you not coming?
  - japanese: この辺りには多くの桜が植えられている。其で外国人が花見に来る人気の観光スポットになった。
    english: In this area, numerous cherry trees are growing. Because of that, it has become a popular
      tourist attraction where many foreigners come to view cherry blossoms.
  - japanese: きょうこ：「昨日、私たちは初めてデートしたわ。」あけみ：「へえーそうなんだ。其でどうだった？」
    english: 'Kyoko: ''Yesterday, we went on a date for the first time.''Akemi: ''Oh yeah? And then? What
      happened?'''
  - japanese: このヘビは有毒の一種です。其で非常に危険だと考えられています。
    english: This snake is one of (many) venomous species. Because of that, it is considered extremely
      dangerous.
  - japanese: いずくさんは子供の頃よくいじめられました。其で弱い者の味方になっています。
    english: Izuku-san was often bullied as a child. Therefore, he is now an ally of the weak.
  - japanese: きょうこ：「その後、映画を見に行ったわ。」あけみ：「其で何があったの？」
    english: 'Kyoko: ''After that, we went to a movie. ''Akemi: ''And then? Did something happen?'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/それで
false_friends:
  - term: そのため(に)
    meaning: For that reason, Because of that, To that end
    kind: synonym
