grammar_point: によって・による
jlpt: N3
meaning: By means of, According to, Depending on, Because of, Due to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: によって,による, and により are all different versions of the same expression, that can basically be translated
  as 'according to (A)', or 'depending on (A)'. This uses the same よる as seen in the grammar patternによると.
  They will be used in the following way:によって- Generally used before a comma (although not always). Acts
  as the separation point between the (A) and (B) parts of a sentence. Made up of thecase marking particleに,
  and the う - Verb よる in its て form.による- Generally used at the end of a sentence, to highlight that the
  previous statement depends on (A).により- Almost always used before a comma. Acts as the separation point
  between the (A) and (B) parts of a sentence. Made up of thecase marking particleに, and the う - Verb
  よる in itsconjunctive form.To use any of these constructions, attach them to the end of a noun that you
  want to express as being the 'dependent' thing.Cautionによるmay also sometimes be followed by a noun. In
  these cases, it will become a verb modified noun, and highlight that (B) resulted from (A).Fun FactAlthough
  よる is almost always written in hiragana, there are several different kanji that use this reading. They
  all share similar meanings. Learn more about this in theによるとgrammar point.
examples:
  - japanese: 地域によって、ゴミ出しルールが違う。
    english: Depending on the area, the rules for throwing out garbage are different.
  - japanese: 行けるか行けないかは休みが取れるか取れないかによる。
    english: Whether I can go or not depends on if I can take a day off.
  - japanese: ベンおじさんは強盗により、命を奪われた。
    english: Uncle Ben's life was taken by a robber.
  - japanese: このミスはヒューマンエラーによるものです。
    english: This mistake is caused by human error.
  - japanese: この地震による津波の心配はありません。
    english: There is no need to worry about a tsunami brought about from this earthquake.
  - japanese: アメリカでは州によって法律が違う。
    english: In America, laws differ depending on the state.
  - japanese: その車の値段によって、決めます。
    english: I will choose depending on the price of that car.
  - japanese: 国によって、いろいろな伝統があります。
    english: There are a variety of traditions depending on the country.
  - japanese: 調査によって新たな事実が明らかになった。
    english: Through research, a new truth was discovered. (by means of)
  - japanese: 納豆が好きかどうかは人による。
    english: It depends on the person whether they like natto or not.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/によって-による
false_friends:
  - term: ために
    meaning: Due to, Because of, As a result of
    kind: synonym
  - term: によると・によれば
    meaning: According to
    kind: synonym
  - term: 次第
    meaning: As soon as
    kind: synonym
  - term: 〜かは〜によって違う
    meaning: Depends on, Changes depending on, Differ depending on
    kind: synonym
