grammar_point: かねる
jlpt: N2
meaning: Cannot, Be unable to, Hard to, Hesitant to
meaning_warning: Should be used only with transitive words with the exception of わかる and できる
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 兼ねる, a る-Verb meaning 'to spread across' (usually 2 different activities or thought processes),
  often follows the ます-stem of other verbs in order to highlight that '(A) is not possible'. However,兼ねるoften
  indicates that the speaker would actually like to do (A), but cannot due to some external circumstances
  such as difficulty, already being busy, being hesitant, etc.This particular grammar pattern will most
  frequently be seen in its non-kanji form, although both are possible.兼ねるis somewhat formal, and may
  be used in cases where a phrase like できない would be considered too strong, so the speaker wants to lightly
  imply that (A) cannot be done.Fun-fact - As兼ねるmeans 'to spread across', this expression can be thought
  of as similar to 'to be a stretch' in English. It just indicates that doing the action of (A) would
  be a stretch of the speaker's ability or capacity.
examples:
  - japanese: こう言う場合でも返金はできかねます。
    english: Even in situations like this we can't give you a refund.
  - japanese: それはお客様のプライバシーに関わる情報なのでお答えしかねます。
    english: That is information regarding our client's privacy so we cannot answer that.
  - japanese: お電話での予約受付は受けかねます。
    english: We cannot accept reservations by phone.
  - japanese: 弊社は内装専門なので外装に関わるお仕事はお引き受けしかねます。
    english: It would be a bit of a stretch for us to accept exterior work, as we specialize in interiors.
  - japanese: 生徒:時間旅行ができると思います。先生:そのような意見には、とうてい同意し兼ねます。
    english: 'Student: ''I think that time travel is possible.'' Teacher: ''I just cannot agree with such
      an opinion.'' (hesitant)'
  - japanese: 悪いけど、試験はこれ以上良い点数をつけ兼ねる。
    english: I am sorry, but I cannot give you a better score on the exam than that. (hesitant)
  - japanese: 匿名の大臣さん：「将来の財政赤字に関する首相の言葉は信じ兼ねる。反対するわけにもいかないので、うなずくしかない。」
    english: 'Anonymous cabinet minister: ''It is hard to believe the prime minister''s words about the
      future budget deficit. However, because I can''t oppose them, I just nod.'' (hesitant)'
  - japanese: 個人的な理由での払い戻しは応じ兼ねます。
    english: I cannot accept a refund based on personal reasons. (hesitant)
  - japanese: そんな無茶な要望はお引受けし兼ねます。
    english: I cannot accept such an absurd demand. (hesitant)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かねる
false_friends:
  - term: かねない
    meaning: Might, Could be, Capable of, Possible
    kind: antonym
  - term: 〜得ない
    meaning: Unable to, Cannot
    kind: synonym
  - term: わけにはいかない
    meaning: Cannot afford to, No way, Impossible to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: 切れない
    meaning: Being unable to finish or complete
    kind: synonym
  - term: を兼ねて
    meaning: And also, Also (partly) to, Also (partly) for (the purpose of), At the same time, To double
      as, When … also, While … as well, And as
    kind: synonym
