grammar_point: ばかり
jlpt: N3
meaning: Just, Only, Nothing but
meaning_warning: ばっかり, ばっか, ばかし, and ばっかし are all fairly common casual variations of ばかり
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When used after verbs followed by theconjunction particleて, or nouns, theadverbial particleばかりhighlights
  that 'nothing but (A) is being done', or 'only (A) exists'. In relation to verbs, てばかり is often followed
  by いる, as a modified version of the standard ている. However, adding いる is not a requirement, and the same
  nuance may be conveyed without it.When a sentence consists of a part (A) and a part (B), ばかり will be
  followed by either で (with verbs or nouns), or いて (only with verbs). This is when ばかり appears directly
  before the sentence conjunction point, and other combinations are possible (such as ばかりだから).It should
  be noted that the で with ばかり here is not the particle で, but theconjunctive formof the auxiliary verb,だ.Fun
  Factばかり is rarely seen using kanji, but it originally comes from許り (sometimes計る). This kanji means 'to
  let off', or 'to let through', and implies that (A) is the only thing that is being 'permitted' in a
  specific situation.
examples:
  - japanese: 先生はいつも怒ってばかりいる。
    english: Our teacher does nothing but yell.
  - japanese: 最近はお菓子ばかり食べているから、お腹がでてきた。
    english: Recently, I've been eating nothing but junk, so my stomach is bulging out.
  - japanese: 先月生まれた息子がずっと泣いてばかりいて、全然寝れない。
    english: My son who was born last month does nothing but cry, so I can't sleep.
  - japanese: 彼は毎日残業してばかりで、全然家の事を手伝ってくれない。
    english: All he does is work overtime everyday, and he won't help me with house chores.
  - japanese: 彼は口を開けると文句ばかりで、一緒にいるだけで疲れる。
    english: When he opens his mouth, all he can do is complain, so just being with him is exhausting.
  - japanese: 彼はいつも嘘ばかり言っている。
    english: He does nothing but tell lies.
  - japanese: 私の弟はゲームをしてばかりですよ。
    english: My little brother does nothing but play video games.
  - japanese: 甘い物を食べてばかりいると、虫歯が増える。
    english: If you only/do nothing but eat sweets, you will have more cavities.
  - japanese: 人生つらいことばかりではない。いい日もあるよ。
    english: Life is not always (nothing but) hard. There are good days too.
  - japanese: いつももらってばかりですみません。
    english: It seems that I do nothing but receive (gifts) from you. Sorry about that.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ばかり
false_friends:
  - term: ばかりでなく
    meaning: Not only…but also, As well as
    kind: antonym
  - term: だけでなく(て)～も
    meaning: Not only ~ but ~ also, Not just ~ but ~ also
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけしか
    meaning: To emphasize '~only', Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけ
    meaning: Only, Just
    kind: synonym
  - term: しか～ない
    meaning: There's only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかりだ
    meaning: (Only) continue to, Keep on -ing, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかりに
    meaning: Simply because, Only because, Just because, Simply on account of
    kind: synonym
