grammar_point: ても差し支えない
jlpt: N1
meaning: May, Is bit a bother if, Do you mind if, Is it a problem if
meaning_warning: ても差し支えないです is also used but lacks politeness compared to other phrases, so it is less
  common and it is better to avoid it.
details:
  Register: Polite
  使用域: 敬語
writeup: ても差し支えないis a polite expression used in a similar way to てもいい 'may I', or 'do you mind'. This
  is a combination of ても (or でも when following nouns or な-Adjectives), and the る-Verb差し支える 'to interfere',
  or 'to hinder' in its negative form,差し支えない. It may be used either for asking for or granting permission.
  Due to this pattern being polite, ありません will almost always be used in place of ない by itself.The more
  literal translation is 'it is not a hindrance if (A)'. In cases where permission is being asked for,
  か will be added to the end of ありません.CautionAlthoughても差し支えるis used in polite sentences, the verb差し支える
  itself is not strictly reserved for use in polite language, and will appear in sentences when implying
  that (A) has or will have a negative impact on (B).
examples:
  - japanese: ここに座ってもらっても差し支えありません。どうぞお座りください。
    english: I don't mind if you sat there. Please sit down.
  - japanese: お風呂は熱くても差し支えません。むしろ熱い方がありがたいです。
    english: I don't mind if the bath is hot. In fact, I like hotter baths.
  - japanese: 私はまだ初心者です。下手でも差し支えありませんか。
    english: I am still a beginner. Do you mind if I'm not very good at it?
  - japanese: 今週はものすごく忙しいので来週でも差し支えありませんか。
    english: I'm extremely busy this week, so would you mind if we do it next week?
  - japanese: 明日の大会に差し支えるので、焼肉に行くのは大会の後にしましょう。
    english: Since it will interfere with tomorrow's tournament, let's go to the yakiniku after the tournament.
  - japanese: タバコは健康に差し支えるので、吸わないようにしています。
    english: I do not smoke cigarettes because it is hazardous to my health.
  - japanese: 電車：「ここに座っても差し支えありませんか？」
    english: 'Train: ''Would it bother you if I sit here?'''
  - japanese: 医者に：「この薬とその薬を一緒に飲んでも差し支えないでしょうか？」
    english: 'To a doctor: ''May I take that medicine together with this one?'''
  - japanese: 営業担当者「明日、お電話差し上げても差し支えございませんか？」クライエント「はい、問題ありません。」
    english: 'Sales representative: ''Would it bother you if I call you tomorrow?''Client: ''No problem
      at all.'''
  - japanese: 医者「この飲み薬は風邪の症状が治まりましたら、服用を停止しても差し支えありません。」
    english: 'Doctor: ''You may stop taking this medicine when your cold symptoms have subsided.'''
  - japanese: 目上の人に：「書類は宅配サービスを利用してお送りしても差し支えないでしょうか？」
    english: 'To superior: ''Would it bother you if I send the documents using the courier service?'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ても差し支えない
false_friends: []
