grammar_point: わ〜わ
jlpt: N1
meaning: ~and ~and, Keep ~ing, One after another, So much, So many, One after another
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: わis anadverbial particlethat is commonly used in cases of stress of emphasis in Japanese. When
  appearing after thedictionary formof a verb that is being repeated, it highlights a large amount, something
  happening successively, or more and more. It will often be translated as 'more and more (A)', '(A) keeps
  on happening', or 'so much (A)'.わ～わmay be used either positively or negatively.To use this structure,
  simply placeわafter the verb, and then repeat the same verb with a secondわ.わ～わprimarily emphasizes the
  speaker's surprise in regard to the amount or extent of (A). This structure is predominantly used by
  men, but it may also sometimes be used by women. However, there are several different variations of
  わ depending on where they appear in sentences, each of which have gender usage tendencies that will
  need to be learned.In many cases where a する verb is being used withわ～わ, the second instance of the action
  will be omitted, with する appearing by itself. For example, instead of勉強するわ勉強するわ,勉強するわするわwould be used.Fun
  Factわis simply an emphatic version of the usual はadverbial particle, and originates from は being changed
  toわ. Due to this, the literal meaning can be thought of as a stronger version of the standard 'as for
  (A)' meaning of は. This would come across something like 'as for (A), it did (A)', with the repetition
  itself adding to the emphasis.
examples:
  - japanese: もう、昨日子供達が喧嘩して泣くわ泣くわで大変だったんだから。
    english: Oh my god, it was so hectic yesterday because the kids got into a fight and cried so much.
  - japanese: 空き家を買ったのはいいけど、家中にはゴキブリがいるわいるわ。多分自分じゃ何もできないから業者に頼むしかなさそう。
    english: I bought a vacant house, and that's exciting, but there are so many cockroaches all over
      the house. I probably won't be able to do anything myself, so I will have to call someone.
  - japanese: 私の息子なんて、部活を始めてからというもの食べるわ食べるわ、食費が心配だよ。
    english: Ever since my son has started after school activities, he eats so much that I am worried
      about the cost of food.
  - japanese: あの子は医者になりたいって決めてから、毎日勉強するわするわ。
    english: Ever since he has decided that he wants to be a doctor, he studies a lot.
  - japanese: 「病院に入院してた時、いろいろ検査したらまあ、出るわ出るわ…（思った以上のことが指摘された）。」
    english: '''When I was in the hospital, they did various tests and, well, they just kept coming up...''
      （the results that were worse than expected）'
  - japanese: 「新婚旅行から戻ったらメールボックスには郵便物があるわあるわ、つかえてしまって引っ張ることができなかった。」
    english: '''When we got back from our honeymoon, there was so much mail in the mailbox that it was
      stuck and I couldn''t pull it out.'''
  - japanese: 「子供が転んで泣くわ泣くわ。なだめるの大変だった。」
    english: '''Our child fell and cried so much that it was hard to calm her down.'''
  - japanese: 「先輩は面白いのなんのって喋ると笑うわ笑うわ。」
    english: '''Senpai is so funny, that I laugh so much whenever he talks.'''
  - japanese: 「ちょっとからかっただけで、あいつ怒るわ怒るわ。」
    english: '''He gets so angry just by teasing him a bit.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/わ-わ
false_friends: []
