grammar_point: したがって
jlpt: N2
meaning: Therefore, Thus, As a result
meaning_warning: だから can always take the place of したがって、but したがって cannot always take the place of だから
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: When used as a conjunction, the う-Verb従う 'to comply' in its て-form will indicate that something
  is 'following on from (A), (B)', or 'as a result of (A), (B)'. As従う highlights something that 'obeys
  with (A)', this construction will only be used to show a logical conclusion that is caused by (A).A
  typical pattern where従ってwill be seen, is two sentences in which the first expresses a cause, and the
  second begins with従ってand then lists the logical result.This is a fairly formal grammar pattern, so is
  more likely to be encountered in more formal speech or writing.
examples:
  - japanese: 現在東名高速の名古屋インターと岡崎インターの間でリニューアル工事が行われている。従って、その区間は現在通行止めとなっている。
    english: Renewal work is currently underway on the Tomei Expressway between the Nagoya Interchange
      and the Okazaki Interchange. Therefore, that section is currently closed.
  - japanese: 今年は去年より台風が多かったです。従って、今年の米の値段は去年より高くなるでしょう。
    english: There were more typhoons this year than last year. Therefore, the price of rice this year
      will be higher than last year.
  - japanese: 会社ではインフルエンザが流行っている。従って、会議は全てオンラインで行われることになった。
    english: The flu is going around in my company. Therefore, it has been decided that all meetings are
      going to take place online.
  - japanese: 銅には多くの用途があるにもかかわらず生産量がかなり少ない金属である。従ってトン当たりの価格が非常に高い。
    english: Copper, in spite of having many uses, is a metal with a relatively low output. Therefore,
      price per ton is extremely high.
  - japanese: この辺は二週間にわたって雨が降っていた。従って氾濫の可能性がある。
    english: In this area, rain has been falling over a span of two weeks. Thus, there is a possibility
      of flooding.
  - japanese: 「従って」と「だから」は英単語「therefore」を意味する。従って、この役割でどちらも使用できるが、例外がある。すべての場合に「従って」を「だから」へ言い換えできるが、逆はできるとは限らない。
    english: '''______'' and ''だから'' both mean ''therefore'' in English. As a result, both can take on
      the same role, however, there are exceptions. ''______'' can be rephrased into ''だから'' in every
      case, but the reverse is not always true.'
  - japanese: 意見の相違がありすぎる。従って、契約は破棄させていただきます。
    english: There is too much difference in our opinions. Therefore, let's break the agreement.
  - japanese: 公害が増大している。従って、工場は閉鎖する方向になります。
    english: Pollution is increasing. Therefore, it has been decided that we will close the factory.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/したがって
false_friends:
  - term: そこで
    meaning: Accordingly, Now, Therefore, To that end
    kind: synonym
  - term: その結果
    meaning: As a result
    kind: synonym
  - term: から (because)
    meaning: Because, Since
    kind: synonym
  - term: ままに (as desired)
    meaning: As (one likes, feels or pleases), Spur of the moment, Wherever one fancies, Spontaneously,
      On a whim
    kind: synonym
