grammar_point: までに
jlpt: N4
meaning: Until (something) happens
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: までにis a combination of two different types of particles. Theadverbial particleまで, and thecase
  marking particleに.までにis verb similar toまでwhen it means 'until'. However, there is one very important
  distinction. This distinction is thatまでにmeans 'by', not 'until'.To useまでに, we will need to attach it
  to the end of a noun, or verb in the non-past form.To understand the difference betweenまで, andまでに, we
  need to remember thatにusually marks a 'target', or a 'destination' for where something will happen.
  In this case,までis the 'target' thatにis marking. This is due to the fact thatまでmeans 'as far as' (までis
  sometimes written using kanji迄, especially in older/formal texts, and newspapers).In this way,までにmore
  literally means '(A) as far as (にmarks the target), (B).Fun FactOriginally,までmeant 'as far as' in regard
  to the passing of a particular event. However, in modern Japanese, most people will assume that the
  speaker means 'by the beginning of (A)'. Due to this, sentences that have a very broad event, such as夏までにcould
  actually be interpreted as 'by the start of summer', or 'before the end of summer', depending on who
  you are talking to. In these cases, it would be better to add a more specific time frame.
examples:
  - japanese: 5時までに駅に来てください。
    english: Please come to the station by 5 o'clock.
  - japanese: 遊びに行くまでに片付けてね。
    english: Please tidy up by the time you go out to play.
  - japanese: 来月までにレポートを書 く。
    english: I will write a report by next month. (Focus is on 'next month' being the deadline)
  - japanese: 来月までレポートを書く。
    english: I am writing a report until next month. (Focus is on 'next month' being the end point for
      something that will continue until that point)
  - japanese: 冬が終わるまでにスキーをしたい。
    english: I want to go skiing by the end of winter. (Not just 'by winter', but specifically 'by the
      end of winter')
  - japanese: 明日までに電話をください。
    english: Please call by tomorrow.
  - japanese: ８時までに学校につかなくてはいけない。
    english: I have to arrive at school by 8 o'clock.
  - japanese: １１月末までに、クリスマスプレゼントを買いに行きましょう。
    english: Let's go Christmas present shopping by the end of November.
  - japanese: 10時までに帰ってきてください。
    english: Could you please come back home by 10?
  - japanese: 10時までに帰ってくることは無理です。
    english: It will be impossible for me to be back by ten.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/までに
false_friends:
  - term: Noun + まで
    meaning: Until, Till,  To (but no further than)
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb + まで
    meaning: Until (something) happens
    kind: synonym
