grammar_point: ながらも
jlpt: N3
meaning: But, Even while, Even though, Despite, Although
meaning_warning: Unlikeながら、ながら(も) is preceded only by verbs that express state
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ながらもis a combination of theconjunction particleながら, and theadverbial particleも. Coming from the
  kanji乍ら, with the meaning of 'while', ながら almost always keeps this nuance. Because of this,ながらもcan be
  translated as 'even while (A), (B)', or 'although (A), also (B)'.ながらもusually expresses surprise at the
  coexistence of (A) and (B), and may be used afterい-Adjectives,な-Adjectives, nouns, or theconjunctive
  formof verbs.ながらもis used to highlight a thing that comes after the existing state of (A) 'そのままで後に続く事'.
  Due to this,ながらもmay only be used with verbs that highlight states of existence (like feelings), rather
  than ongoing actions.
examples:
  - japanese: 才能を持ちながらも、彼は色々と努力した。
    english: Although he is talented, he worked hard in many aspects.
  - japanese: 彼女は悲しみながらも、笑顔で友達に話しました。
    english: Even while she was upset, she talked with her friends with a smile on her face.
  - japanese: 彼はカレーが嫌いながらも、我慢して完食しました。
    english: Although he does not like curry, he gritted his teeth and ate the whole thing.
  - japanese: 私達は貧乏ながらも、仲がいい。
    english: Although we are broke, we have a good relationship.
  - japanese: 「こんなことしちゃだめだ」と思いながらもやってしまった。 (Action)
    english: Even while I thought to myself, 'I shouldn't do something like this,' I did it.
  - japanese: 緊張しながらも、初めての舞台で歌えた。 (Feeling)
    english: Although I was nervous, I was able to sing at my first concert.
  - japanese: お金を沢山持ち乍らも、彼は幸せではないらしい。
    english: Despite having a lot of money, I heard that he isn't happy. (even while)
  - japanese: 文法の勉強をしなければいけないと知ってい乍らも、遊んでしまう。
    english: Despite knowing that I have to study grammar, I still unfortunately goof off. (even while)
  - japanese: 緊張し乍らも、300人の前で発表をした。
    english: Despite being nervous, I gave a presentation in front of 300 people. (even while)
  - japanese: 「やらなきゃいけない」と思い乍らもダラダラしてしまう。
    english: Despite thinking 'I have to do it', I just end up idling around. (even while)
  - japanese: 微力乍らも、協力させていただきます。
    english: Although I can't do much, let me help you. (even while)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ながらも
false_friends:
  - term: にしても
    meaning: Even though, Even if, Even when, Also
    kind: synonym
  - term: のに (in order to)
    meaning: Despite, Although, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: にもかかわらず
    meaning: Despite, In spite of, Regardless, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: それなのに
    meaning: And yet, Despite this
    kind: synonym
  - term: くせに
    meaning: Even though, And yet, Despite
    kind: synonym
  - term: つつ(も)
    meaning: Even while ~ing, Even though ~ing, Despite ~ing, Although ~ing
    kind: synonym
