grammar_point: はじめる
jlpt: N4
meaning: To start, To begin to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: To express that actions are beginning or ending in Japanese, the verbs始める(to commence), or終わる(to
  end) will need to be used. In this lesson, we will focus on actions that are 'beginning'.To say that
  (A) is starting/beginning, we will need to attachはじめるto the ます stem of almost any verb. Whether you
  use the hiragana form, or the kanji form does not matter, as there will be no change in nuance.Due toはじめるbeing
  a verb itself, the tense can be changed, to show that something will start, is starting, or has started.CautionIt
  can be easy to accidentally use始まる, the intransitive form of this verb. However, with this expression,
  the transitive form will always be used, due to the verb thatはじめるis attached to being the thing that
  'is started', by 'something' else.
examples:
  - japanese: 来月からお金をため始めます。
    english: I will start saving money from next month.
  - japanese: 歌を歌い始める。
    english: To start singing a song.
  - japanese: 明日から日本語を習い始める。
    english: I will start learning Japanese from tomorrow. (Will start)
  - japanese: 雨が降り始めてきた。
    english: It is starting to rain. (Is starting)
  - japanese: 高校生の時にお金を貯め始めた。
    english: I started saving up money when I was in high school. (Has started)
  - japanese: 今朝、雪が降りはじめた。
    english: It started to snow this morning.
  - japanese: 明日から、日本語を習いはじめます。
    english: I will start learning Japanese from tomorrow.
  - japanese: 大学を卒業してから、仕事に行きはじめた。
    english: I started going to work after graduation from college.
  - japanese: 日本に行ってから、文法を勉強しはじめた。
    english: I started studying grammar after going to Japan.
  - japanese: 練習しはじめてください。
    english: Please begin to (do) practice.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/はじめる
false_friends:
  - term: おわる
    meaning: To finish, To end
    kind: antonym
  - term: てしまう・ちゃう
    meaning: To do something by accident, To finish completely・totally, Unfortunately
    kind: antonym
  - term: 上がる・上げる
    meaning: Something is finished, To finish something, Something has come to an end, To do something
      completely, To do something through
    kind: antonym
  - term: だす
    meaning: To suddenly begin, To start doing
    kind: synonym
  - term: ていく
    meaning: To ~ and go, To go on, To start
    kind: synonym
  - term: かけ
    meaning: Half-, Not yet finished, About to, Begin to
    kind: synonym
