grammar_point: 反面
jlpt: N2
meaning: While, On the other hand, Although, However, On the flip side
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 反面, a noun meaning 'the opposing side', is a construction in Japanese that appears between two
  phrases, to show two contrasting or opposite features of a single person or thing. This usually translates
  as 'while (A), (B)', 'although (A), also (B)', 'on the other hand to (A), (B)'.Being a noun,反面, can
  be used after any word that could create a modified noun, such as verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives,
  or even other nouns followed by である.Caution - Because反面is used to express contradictions, it will most
  often describe a positive and a negative, but cannot describe a positive and another positive, or a
  negative and another negative.
examples:
  - japanese: 都内に引っ越して色々と便利になった反面、家賃が前住んでいた所の倍になった。
    english: While moving to Tokyo has made many things more convenient, the rent has doubled from where
      I used to live.
  - japanese: カリフォルニアの夏は日本より暑い反面、湿度が低いので過ごしやすいそうです。
    english: Although summer in California is hotter than Japan, I heard that it is more comfortable because
      of the low humidity.
  - japanese: あの日本語教室の先生達は日本語を教えるのがとても上手な反面、生徒達にはとても厳しいそうだ。
    english: Although the teachers at that Japanese language school are very good at teaching Japanese,
      they are very strict with their students.
  - japanese: 田中くんはとても頭のいい子である反面、怠け者なのでいつも先生に怒られています。
    english: Although Tanaka-kun is very smart, he is always getting scolded by the teacher because he
      is lazy.
  - japanese: あのパティシエが作るお菓子はとても美味しそうに見える反面、食べてみると味はいまいちだそうだ。
    english: While the pastries made by that pastry chef look very tasty, the taste is not so good when
      you try them. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: あのパティシエが作るお菓子はとても美味しそうに見える反面、とても美味しいそうだ。
    english: While the pastries made by that pastry chef look very tasty, apparently, they taste very
      good. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 熱帯林は綺麗に見える反面、野生動物、熱帯病などのため、非常に危険だ。
    english: While tropical forests look pretty, they are extremely dangerous because they house things
      like wild animals and tropical diseases.
  - japanese: 運動をよくすることは健康のためにいいことである反面、人は能力以上の成果を望むため、怪我をしてしまう傾向がある。
    english: Although exercising often is good for your health, since people desire achievements beyond
      their abilities, they tend to injure themselves.
  - japanese: 一人暮らしは楽しい反面、自分で料理したり掃除したりする必要もある。
    english: While living alone is fun, it is also necessary for you to do all the cooking, cleaning,
      and the like.
  - japanese: 最近、スマホは必要不可欠な反面、人はテクノロジーに溺れて、人間関係が希薄になるばかりだ。
    english: Recently, while smartphones are essential, people are drowning in technology and human relations
      are getting more and more sparse.
  - japanese: 白菜は健康的だと言われている。その反面、場合によってむくみの原因になる事もある。
    english: Chinese cabbage is said to be healthy. On the other hand, depending on the situation, it
      can also become a cause of bloating.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/反面
false_friends:
  - term: に対して
    meaning: In contrast to, While, In regard to, Whereas
    kind: synonym
  - term: 一方で
    meaning: On the other hand, At the same time, While
    kind: synonym
