grammar_point: について
jlpt: N3
meaning: Concerning, About, Regarding
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: について is a combination of thecase marking particleに, the verb う - Verb就く 'to assume a position',
  and theconjunction particleて. It is most often translated as 'about (A)', or 'concerning (A)', with
  the literal translation being closer to 'taking the position of (A)', or 'assuming the topic of (A)'.について
  may be used after nouns, or noun-phrases (phrases that use こと, の, etc).について may also appear before の
  + noun. In this use, it means '(A) that is about (B)'.CautionIt is rare to see について actually using the
  kanji就. について itself is regularly considered as a singlecompound word, rather than a combination of its
  parts.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女と別れたことについて話したいんだけど時間ある？
    english: I want to talk to you about breaking up with my girlfriend, but do you have time?
  - japanese: 契約のことについて、何か質問はありますか。
    english: Assuming the topic of the contract, do you have any questions?
  - japanese: 行きたい国について、作文を書いてください。
    english: Please write an essay about the country you want to visit.
  - japanese: 契約についてのパンフレットは明日届くので、しっかりとお読みになってください。
    english: The brochure regarding the contract will be delivered tomorrow, so please make sure to read
      it.
  - japanese: 今日は和製英語についてのレッスンをしたいと思います。
    english: Today, I am thinking of giving you a lesson about Wasei Eigo.
  - japanese: この問題について、誰かに話しましたか。
    english: Have you talked to anyone about this problem? (concerning)
  - japanese: 今日は子供教育について、講演を行います。
    english: There will be a lecture today about the education of children. (concerning)
  - japanese: 火災について、訓練をするべきです。
    english: There should be training regarding fires. (about)
  - japanese: 震災についての情報を教えてもらった。
    english: I was taught information regarding earthquake disasters. (concerning)
  - japanese: 原因についてはまだ調査中です。
    english: Regarding the cause, we are still investigating. (concerning・about)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/について
false_friends:
  - term: につき
    meaning: Due to, On account of, Each or every
    kind: synonym
  - term: に取って
    meaning: To, For, Concerning
    kind: synonym
  - term: に関する・に関して
    meaning: Related to, About, Regarding
    kind: synonym
  - term: にかかわる
    meaning: To relate to, To have to do with, Concerning, Depends on
    kind: synonym
  - term: にかけては
    meaning: When it comes to, Regarding, Concerning
    kind: synonym
  - term: において・における
    meaning: In, On, At, Regarding, In terms of
    kind: synonym
  - term: に対して
    meaning: In contrast to, While, In regard to, Whereas
    kind: synonym
