grammar_point: にして②
jlpt: N1
meaning: To be ~ and ~, To be ~ as well as ~, Both ~ and ~
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Occasionally, the combination of the case-marking particle に 'in', and the て-form of the special
  verb する, して will be considered as acompound particle. While this does not change the way it will be
  used, it puts more emphasis on the 'going from that (A), (B)' nuance ofにして. This will be translated
  as '(A) as well as (B)', 'both (A) and (B)', or 'to be (A) and (B)'.This use ofにしてwill appear following
  either nouns or な-Adjectives.Some set expressions like幸いにしてand不幸にしてalso exist. These can be interpreted
  as 'fortunately' and 'unfortunately' respectively.CautionLike with幸いにしてand不幸にして,にしてtends to be used
  with a fairly limited set of words when having the meaning of 'both (A) and (B)'. Due to this, it is
  best to only use patterns that you have come across before.Fun FactThe tense at the end ofにしてsentences
  often changes the way that it will be understood, but it is important to remember that allにしてstructures
  simply put emphasis on (A) as being what allowed (B), led to (B), or exists in precedence to (B).
examples:
  - japanese: この足場は安全にしてかつ組み立てるのが簡単だから、注文が殺到している。
    english: Orders for this scaffolding have been pouring in because it is both safe and easy to assemble.
  - japanese: 彼女は大学の教授にして会社の経営者でもある。
    english: She is both a university professor and a CEO.
  - japanese: 携帯を駅で落としてしまったが、幸いにして交番に届いていた。
    english: I accidentally lost my phone at the station, but fortunately it was delivered to the police
      station.
  - japanese: 彼は不幸にして、幼い頃に両親を亡くした。
    english: Unfortunately, he lost his parents when he was younger.
  - japanese: 紺碧にして美しい海である。
    english: The sea is both beautiful and a deep blue.
  - japanese: 山田先生は有名な教授にして尊敬されている弁護士でもある。
    english: Dr. Yamada is both a famous professor and a respected lawyer too.
  - japanese: 牛は優美、温和にして頭が冴えている。
    english: Cows are graceful, gentle, and smart.
  - japanese: シンプルにしてかつパワフルなアプリである。
    english: This is a simple and moreover a powerful app.
  - japanese: 田中総理大臣は稀代の政治家にして同時に偉大な父でもある。
    english: Prime minister Tanaka is both an extraordinary politician and, at the same time, a great
      father.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にして2
false_friends: []
