grammar_point: ところを
jlpt: N1
meaning: When, While, In spite of (the circumstances), Regardless of (the circumstances)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Being a combination of the noun ところ 'place' or 'situation', and theadverbial particleを,ところをis
  a grammar construction that will be used in order to express 2 primary meanings. The first is 'in spite
  of (A)', or 'regardless of (A)'. This nuance of ところ will be that the speaker is politely acknowledging
  the situation that someone else is in, and apologizing for interrupting them in that moment.ところをmay
  come after any structure that could pair with a noun. This means verbs in theirstandard forms, い-Adjectives,
  な-Adjectives followed by な, or nouns followed by の.The second meaning thatところをis often used for will
  simply be 'when (A)', or 'at the time of (A)', with a focus on being a situation in which the action
  of (A) is interrupted by (B). This may have either a positive or negative nuance.This use ofところをwill
  appear exclusively after verbs in any of theirstandard forms.The を itself may be omitted when used to
  express either of these meanings.Fun Factところをis occasionally split into two different grammar points
  depending on the source. However, it is important to remember that the underlying meaning of both of
  these is the same. ところ marks the place or situation, while を marks how that situation is being utilized
  either positively or negatively. When it comes to apologizing, the speaker themselves is the one 'using'
  that moment with を, and is therefore acknowledging that.
examples:
  - japanese: 先輩、休んでいるところを申し訳ないんですけど、エクセルの使い方を教えてください。
    english: Senpai, I'm sorry to bother you while you are on vacation, but could you please teach me
      how to use Excel?
  - japanese: お忙しいところをすみませんが、相談したいことがあるので少しだけお時間よろしいですか。
    english: I am sorry to bother you while you are busy, but I want some advice. May I have some of your
      time?
  - japanese: ご多忙なところをご対応いただきありがとうございました。
    english: Thank you for taking time out in spite of you being busy.
  - japanese: お急ぎのところを恐縮ですが、何時ぐらいに向こうに着くか教えてもらってもよろしいでしょうか。
    english: I'm sorry to bother you when you are in a hurry, but may I ask what time you expect to arrive
      over there?
  - japanese: 警察に逃げるところを目撃された。
    english: I was seen by the police while I was fleeing.
  - japanese: 母に悪戯をしているところを見られてしまった。
    english: My mother caught me while I was playing a prank.
  - japanese: 彼は強盗をしていたところを周りの人に目撃されていたので、どこにも逃げられなかった。
    english: Since he was seen when he was robbing the store, he had nowhere to run.
  - japanese: 先生からの返信のお礼を言う：「お忙しいところ、ご返信ありがとうございます。」
    english: 'Expressing gratitude to a teacher for their reply: ''In spite of being busy, thank you for
      your reply.'''
  - japanese: 目上の人に尋ねる：「お急ぎのところ恐縮ですが、このプロジェクトについてのご意見をお聞かせ願えませんか」
    english: 'Asking a superior: ''I hate to trouble you when you are in such a hurry, but could you let
      me hear your opinion about this project?'' (in spite of)'
  - japanese: メール：「ご病気中のところ恐れ入りますが、田中先生の携帯の番号を教えていただけますでしょうか。」
    english: 'Email: ''I am awfully sorry to trouble you when you are ill, but could you tell me Mr. Tanaka''s
      cell number?'' (in spite of)'
  - japanese: 駅の放送：「この電車は、三分遅れて到着いたします。お急ぎのところ、ご迷惑をおかけいたします。」
    english: 'Station announcement: ''This train will arrive three minutes late. We apologize for the
      inconvenience while you are in a rush.'' (in spite of)'
  - japanese: 会議での冒頭の挨拶：「皆様、本日はご多忙のところお越しいただき、ありがとうございます。」
    english: 'Greetings on the outset of a conference: ''Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for
      coming today despite being so busy.'' (in spite of)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ところを
false_friends: []
