grammar_point: も構わず
jlpt: N2
meaning: Without worrying about
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: も構わずis an expression that combines も, the う-Verb構う 'to mind', or 'to care', and theliterary auxiliary
  verbず, which connects to verbs in the same way, and has the same meaning as ない. Common translations
  for this pattern include 'without worrying about (A), (B)', and 'without minding (A), (B)'. This structure
  is seen with verbs, い-Adjectives, and な-Adjectives followed by の, but may also follow nouns without
  the addition of の. Occasionally, にも may be used instead of も for further emphasis.も構わずis used most frequently
  to express that (A) is something that is either being ignored or that the speaker is not worried about.
  The (B) part of the statement will regularly highlight something that is being without any consideration
  for (A). This comes from the standard 'to brace', or 'to give pause' meaning of構う.
examples:
  - japanese: 娘はレポートの提出日が迫っているのも構わず、友達と遊んでばかりいる。
    english: Without worrying about the due date of her paper, all she is doing is hanging out with friends.
  - japanese: 彼は遠いにも構わず、広島まで休憩なしで運転し続けた。
    english: Without worrying about the long distance, he kept driving to Hiroshima without taking a break.
  - japanese: 彼女は危険なのも構わず、池で溺れていた猫を救出した。
    english: Without worrying about the danger, she rescued a cat that was drowning in the lake.
  - japanese: 鈴木先輩は時間も構わず、電話を掛けてくるから困っている。
    english: I am annoyed because Suzuki-senpai calls me without worrying about the time.
  - japanese: 医者にストップをかけられていたにも構わず試合に出て、大怪我をしてしまいました。
    english: I participated in the tournament without caring about the doctor's order to stop, and got
      seriously injured.
  - japanese: 他の人の視線もかまわず、彼女は裸でダンスをした。
    english: Without worrying about other people looking, she danced in the nude.
  - japanese: 恥ずかしさにもかまわず、彼はみんなの前で告白した。
    english: Without worrying about embarrassment, he confessed his feelings in front of everyone.
  - japanese: 失敗にもかまわず、研究に打ち込んでいる。
    english: Without worrying about failure, I am diving into my research.
  - japanese: 御馳走もかまわず、仕事に没頭している。
    english: Without worrying about food, they immerse themselves in their work.
  - japanese: 再三の忠告もかまわず結婚し、大失敗しました。
    english: I got married without worrying about the repeated advice I got. It was a huge failure.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/もかまわず
false_friends: []
