grammar_point: すると
jlpt: N3
meaning: Having done..., If...is done..., (And/just) then, Thereupon, If so
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: すると, a combination of する and theconjunction particleと, is generally considered to be an abbreviation
  ofそうすると, and means that 'once (A) is done, (B)', or 'upon (A), (B)'.するとis usually used at the beginning
  of a new sentence, to highlight something that occurred due to the circumstances mentioned in the previous
  sentence/statement.As a standalone statement,するとis classified as aconjunction.CautionThe 'result' thatするとconveys,
  should always be one of two specific things. Something that the speaker has no control over, or a conclusion/determination
  that the speaker wants to confirm is correct (based on their understanding of the previous statement).Whenするとis
  used to draw a conclusion about another person's statement, the translation is closer to 'so you mean
  to say (A)', or 'if so, then (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 久しぶりに押入れの掃除をした。すると、無くしたと思っていた服が出てきた。
    english: I cleaned my closet for the first time in a long time. Upon that, I found clothes that I
      thought I had lost.
  - japanese: お祖母ちゃんが川で洗濯をしていた。すると、川の向こうから桃が流れてきた。
    english: An old lady was washing her clothes in the river. Just then, a peach flowed down the river
      from a distance.
  - japanese: 猿にバナナをあげた。すると、猿がどんどん集まってきた。
    english: I gave a banana to a monkey. Having done that, more and more monkeys started to gather around
      me.
  - japanese: 19歳なの？すると、大学1年生でしょう？
    english: You are 19? So you mean to say that you are a freshman, right?
  - japanese: 従兄弟が絵を描いていた。すると、弟も真似をして描き始めた。
    english: My cousin was drawing a picture. And then my younger brother, imitating him, started to draw
      too.
  - japanese: A：「僕は◯◯年生まれです。」B：「すると、車を運転できる歳ですね。」
    english: 'A: ''I was born in XX year.''B: ''Then, you are old enough to drive, right?'''
  - japanese: ハロウィンで魔女の格好をした。すると、とてもかわいいと言ってもらえてうれしかった。
    english: I dressed up as a witch for halloween. And then, people told me I was very cute which made
      me happy.
  - japanese: 昨日夢を見はじめた。すると、弟に起こされた。
    english: I was starting to dream yesterday. And then I was woken up by my brother.
  - japanese: 口笛を吹いた。すると、小鳥がやって来た。
    english: I whistled. Having done that, a small bird came.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/すると
false_friends:
  - term: そこで
    meaning: Accordingly, Now, Therefore, To that end
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうすると
    meaning: Having done that..., If that is done..., (And/just) then, Thereupon, If so
    kind: synonym
  - term: と (quotation)
    meaning: If, When, Whenever, And, [Conditional]
    kind: synonym
  - term: それに
    meaning: And, Besides, Moreover, In addition
    kind: synonym
  - term: そのため(に)
    meaning: For that reason, Because of that, To that end
    kind: synonym
