grammar_point: 向け
jlpt: N3
meaning: Intended for, Aimed at
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 向けis a shortened form of the transitive verb向ける 'to aim at', and is considered to be a造語(neologism).
  This means a word that was created for a specific purpose, and may not necessarily be used for anything
  outside of that purpose. The purpose of向けis to attach to other nouns, in order to express that something
  is 'intended for (A)', 'aimed at (A)', or 'oriented toward (A)'.向けmay be seen followed by thecase marking
  particleに(when followed by a phrase), or thecase marking particleの, when linked with another noun.In
  terms of products and similar items, although向けhighlights that something has been intended for (A),
  it doesn't necessarily mean that it is limited to (A).Caution向け, coming from the transitive verb向ける
  is used far more often to express that something has been specifically designed for (A). On the other
  hand, thesuffixstemming from the intransitive verb向く, (向き), expresses something that faces toward (A),
  but perhaps not intentionally.
examples:
  - japanese: この教科書は上級者向けに書いてある。
    english: This textbook is written oriented toward advanced people.
  - japanese: 子供向けに書かれた本を読んで日本語を勉強したら？
    english: Why don't you study Japanese by reading books written for children?
  - japanese: オフィス向けのパソコンを10台買うとしたらいくらになりますか。
    english: If I were to buy 10 computers intended for office use, how much would that cost?
  - japanese: これは大人向けの映画だから、お前には見せれないよ。
    english: This movie is intended for adults so I can't show it to you.
  - japanese: 私が住んでいる所は一人暮らし向けのアパートだけれども、3人家族でもなんの不便無く住める。
    english: The place I am living is intended for one person, but even as a three person family, we can
      live there with no inconveniences.
  - japanese: そのおもちゃは猫向けに作られている。
    english: That toy is made for cats.
  - japanese: 上級者向きの本は難しいです。
    english: Books suitable for advanced learners are hard.
  - japanese: この番組は大人向けだ。
    english: This TV program is aimed at adults.
  - japanese: この教科書は算数を学んでいる人向けだから、日本語を学んでいる人に役には立たない。
    english: This textbook is intended for people who are learning math, so it won't help those who are
      studying Japanese.
  - japanese: ドラゴンボールはアニメだけど、若者向けだ。小学生以下の子供向けじゃない。
    english: '''Dragonball'' is an anime aimed at young people, but it is not intended for elementary
      school students or younger.'
  - japanese: まずは初心者向けの参考書を勉強した方がいいですよ。
    english: First of all, I think it would be better if you studied with a textbook aimed at beginners.
  - japanese: これは海外向けの番組だから、何を言っているのか全然分からない。
    english: This is a TV program aimed at foreigners, so I have no idea what is being said.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/向け
false_friends:
  - term: に向かって・に向けて
    meaning: Towards, To face, To head to
    kind: synonym
  - term: 向き
    meaning: Suitable for, Facing
    kind: synonym
  - term: に合わせて・に合った
    meaning: In accordance with, Matching, Fitting, Suitable for, Adjust or tune to
    kind: synonym
