grammar_point: てから
jlpt: N5
meaning: Once...is done, Once...happens, After doing
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Case Marking Particle
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 表現
  単語の種類: 格助詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In order to specifically express that one thing happens/begins to happen after another thing,
  てから will be used. This expression is regularly translated as 'once (A) happens, (B)', or 'after doing
  (A), (B)'.The difference between てから , and the regular て form followed by another verb, is that てから
  puts more emphasis on the (A) action 'enabling' the (B) action.Cautionから can come after almost any form
  of verb. てから is the only form that translates as 'after (A), (B)'. た から , and るから will translate closer
  to 'because', or 'since'.
examples:
  - japanese: 今夜は勉強をするから、遊ばない。
    english: I won't hang out tonight, because I will be studying.
  - japanese: 牛丼の大盛を食べたから、お腹いっぱい。
    english: I am full because I ate a large serving of gyudon. (After having eaten a large serving of
      gyudon)
  - japanese: 晩ご飯を食べてから、洗い物をする。
    english: After I eat, I will do the dishes.
  - japanese: 日本語の勉強をしてから、日本に行きます。
    english: Once I study Japanese, I will go to Japan.
  - japanese: 日本に行ってから、日本語の勉強をします。
    english: After going to Japan, I will study Japanese.
  - japanese: この本を読んでから、返す。
    english: Once I've read this book, I will return it.
  - japanese: 暇になってから、ゆっくり旅行に行きたい。
    english: After becoming free, I want to take a nice, long trip.
  - japanese: 雪が降ってから、スキーに行く。
    english: Once it snows, I will go skiing.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てから
false_friends:
  - term: あとで
    meaning: After, Later
    kind: synonym
  - term: たら
    meaning: When, From when, Just when, If
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上で
    meaning: After, Upon
    kind: synonym
  - term: から (because)
    meaning: From
    kind: synonym
  - term: て初めて
    meaning: For the first time, Not until, Only after, Only when, Only because
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb + て
    meaning: And, Then (Linking events)
    kind: synonym
