grammar_point: にしたところで
jlpt: N1
meaning: Even, Even for, Even from the perspective of, Even in the case of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: にしたところでorとしたところでare two expressions that are used to indicate the hypothetical situation of (A),
  from within which the result of (B) will not change. These structures primarily express a lack of power
  over the ultimate result, or a lack of significant difference between (A) and any other potential choice.
  Translations include 'even in the case of (A), (B)', or 'even for (A), (B)'.These structures combine
  either of the case-marking particles と or に with the past tense of する, した, the noun ところ, used for marking
  the situation, and thecase marking particleで. It will directly follow nouns or noun-modified phrases.These
  patterns can be thought of more simply as a combination of にする 'going with (A)' or とする 'as (A)', and
  the たところで 'even if (A), not (B)' grammar structure that indicates negative outcomes.In casual situations,
  たところで will occasionally be replaced with たって.
examples:
  - japanese: 先輩の青木さんにしたところで、上達しなければいけない箇所はある。
    english: Even our senpai Aoki-san has areas where he can improve.
  - japanese: ノートパソコンにしたところで、Wi-Fiがないと仕事ができない。
    english: Even with a laptop, if there is no Wi-Fi I can't work.
  - japanese: 1時間寝坊をしてしまったのでいくら急いだとしたところで、間に合うわけがない。
    english: Even if I hurry, I am not going to make it because I overslept an hour.
  - japanese: ダイエットを始めたとしたところで、私は三日坊主だから続かないだろう。
    english: Even if I go on a diet, I have a short attention span so I don't think I will be able to
      continue.
  - japanese: 私にしたってそんなことはしたくないけど、上司に言われたからにはするしかない。
    english: Even if I don't want to do such a thing, my boss told me to, so I have no choice but to do
      it.
  - japanese: 謝ったとしたって、社長は彼のことを許さないだろう。
    english: Even if I apologized, he would probably not forgive him.
  - japanese: 彼は非常に深刻な状態だ。天才医師のジャックにしたところで何もできない。
    english: He is in very serious condition. Even the genius-doctor Jack cannot do anything.
  - japanese: 小説：「ホロは賢い神だという。もっとも彼女としたところで普通人間と同じように孤独を感じる日もあるが。」
    english: 'Novel: ''Holo is said to be a wise god. However, even for her, there are days when she feels
      lonely like an ordinary human.'''
  - japanese: 新首相は前首相を批判したが、彼にしたって国の経済を好転させられるわけではない。
    english: The new prime minister criticized the previous one, but it does not mean that even he can
      change the country's economy for the better.
  - japanese: 誰にでも欠点はある。完全な田中さんとしたって同じだ。
    english: Everyone has faults. It is the case even for the perfect Tanaka.
  - japanese: 最高の監視員にしたところでプールなどで全ての者の安全を見守るのは不可能だ。
    english: Even for the best lifeguard, it is impossible to watch over everybody in the pool.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にしたところで
false_friends: []
