grammar_point: ようになる
jlpt: N4
meaning: To reach the point that, To come to be that, To turn into
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When combined with the particleに, and theう-Verbなる,ようexpresses that a particular action has reached
  the point of being completed/able to be completed. Because of this,ようになるis regularly translated as 'to
  reach the point that (A)', or 'to turn into (A)'.To useようになる, it will need to be added to the plain-potential,
  non-past form of a verb.CautionWhen using this grammar construction, we will need to remember thatするdoes
  not have apotentialform. Therefore,できるwill be used with words that usually act asするverbs.However,ようになるis
  not limited to being used in affirmative sentences, and may also be used after a verb with ない. This
  shows that something has reached the point of 'not' being able to be completed.
examples:
  - japanese: 毎日、漢字の練習をすれば綺麗に漢字を書けるようになります。
    english: If you practice kanji everyday, you will reach the point where you can write them neatly.
  - japanese: 早く走れるようになりたい。
    english: I want to reach the point where I can run faster.
  - japanese: 髪を綺麗にカット出来るようになるのが夢です。
    english: It is my dream to reach the point where I can cut my hair nicely.
  - japanese: 自分から行動が出来るようになってください。
    english: Please turn into someone who can act on their own. (Please become more self sufficient)
  - japanese: 来年から現金が使えないようになる。
    english: From next year, it will reach the point where you will not be able to use cash.(Starting
      next year, you will not be able to use cash)
  - japanese: 来月から会社で喫煙できないようになります。
    english: Starting next month, it will reach the point where you will not be able to smoke at the company.
      (Starting next month, smoking will be banned)
  - japanese: ちゃんと英語を勉強すれば、話せるようになる。
    english: If you study English diligently, then you will reach a point where you can speak it.
  - japanese: 私は何か決める時に、誰かに相談するようになった。
    english: I have come to the point of discussing it with someone whenever I will decide on something.
  - japanese: 料理ができるようになりたい。
    english: I want to reach a point where I can cook.
  - japanese: 理解出来るようになった。
    english: I reached the point that I could understand.
  - japanese: 100mを10秒で走れるようになった。
    english: I reached the point that I could run 100 meters in 10 seconds.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ようになる
false_friends:
  - term: ようにする
    meaning: To try to, To make sure to, To endeavor to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことになる
    meaning: It will end up being, It is the result of, It has been decided that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように
    meaning: So that, In order to, In such a way that
    kind: synonym
