grammar_point: なりに
jlpt: N1
meaning: In one's own way, Of someone's own, Do one's best in one's own way, As much as one can
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When used as a noun, なり often presents an example group from which something exhibits traits
  of, regardless of whether that group is actually a good example of the trait being described. This use
  can be translated as 'for (A) do to (C) in the way of (B)'. Or more simply, 'to do its best in its own
  way', or 'to do as much as one can'. This use stems from形, meaning 'shape' or 'pattern', and can be
  thought of as meaning 'in the pattern of'.In these sentences, (A) will be a specific example from within
  a group, (B) will be representative of the whole group, and (C), will be the trait or behavior in question
  related to (B).Either of thecase marking particles に or の will come after なり, depending on whether なり
  is linked directly to a noun, or is being used adverbially.なりにandなりのmay follow almost any word in itsplain
  form, with the word it follows being the group or quality that is being represented.This use of なり is
  considered a neologism, which is a pre-existing word that has been adapted to have a new meaning or
  nuance. When used this way, なり will almost always express that (A) is not doing something adequately
  or as desired, but is doing the best it can based on the 'pattern' or 'mold' that it comes from.
examples:
  - japanese: 自由時間が増えたら、増えたなりに有効に使いたい。
    english: If I get more free time, I would like to use all that freetime as much as I could.
  - japanese: 広い部屋は広いなりのデメリットがあります。
    english: Large rooms have their own disadvantages.
  - japanese: 彼は仕事が下手なりに、他の社員のモチベーションをあげてくれたりしている。
    english: For all of his lack of skill, he does his best to motivate other workers.
  - japanese: 自分なりに頑張ってみたが、やっぱりダメだった。
    english: I tried my best in my own way, but it was still not enough.
  - japanese: なつみちゃん：「田舎って本当に不便だよね」こまりちゃん：「田舎は不便な時もあるけど、それなりに魅力もあるよ。」
    english: 'Natsumi: ''The countryside is really inconvenient, right?''Komari: ''It might be inconvenient
      sometimes, but it also has its own charm.'''
  - japanese: 「子供はいいね。何にも心配ごとも無いし...」「でも、子供には子供なりの苦しみがあるんだけど。」
    english: '''Children have it nice. No worries at all…''''But children have worries of their own  though.'''
  - japanese: 彼は下手なりに頑張ってラブレターを書いた。
    english: For all of his lack of skill, he did the best that he could (in his own way) to write a love
      letter.
  - japanese: 会計士は会計士なりに頑張って全ての手段を尽くしましたが、解決策を見つけられませんでした。
    english: The accountants have done their best to leave no stone unturned, but they could not find
      a solution. (as much as one can)
  - japanese: 「その問い合わせに対する私なりの回答をご紹介いたします。」
    english: '''I would like to present my own answer to that query.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なりに
false_friends: []
