grammar_point: こと
jlpt: N4
meaning: Converting a verb into a noun
meaning_warning: Can also express something that is concrete - a fact.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In a very similar way toのは,ことis used in Japanese for nominalization (creating a noun-like phrase).
  However, unlikeのは, which is a combination of two particles,ことis anoun. To useこと, just add it to the
  end of a verb in its dictionary form.こと(or事in its kanji form) is a noun that is often translated as
  'thing', and in this way, literally means 'the thing that is (A)' when used for nominalization.As we
  can see from these examples, ない can also be used between the verb andこと, to form a 'not' statement.
  There are otherauxiliary verbsthat may be used withことin this way, but ない is the most common.Although
  this lesson discussesことpairing with the dictionary form of verbs, it can actually pair with any standard
  verb form. Standard form just means anything that does not finish with the polite ます.Fun FactUnlikeもの(another
  noun used to describe 'things'),ことis a noun that is frequently used to describe things that are 'intrinsic'.
  This basically means things that are describable, but not necessarily always observable (feelings, conditions,
  events, etc.).CautionWhen a sentence (usually short) finishes withこと, it quite often has the nuance
  of being a rule, or command. Thisことis not actually a noun, but asentence ending particle.ことas a particle
  will almost never be written in the kanji form. However, it does originate from the same word.
examples:
  - japanese: 近所の迷惑になることをしてはいけない。
    english: You should not do things that will cause annoyance to your neighbors. (That which is 'causing
      a problem in the neighborhood')
  - japanese: ファックスをすることが嫌い。
    english: I dislike things like faxing. (That which is 'faxing')
  - japanese: お金を使い過ぎないことが大事です。
    english: It is important to not use too much money. (That which is 'not using too much money')
  - japanese: 1．クラスメイトをいじめないこと。
    english: 1. Do not bully your classmates.
  - japanese: 日本語を話すことは難しい。
    english: Speaking Japanese is difficult.
  - japanese: スポーツをすることが好き。
    english: I like playing sports.
  - japanese: ダンスをすることは楽しい。
    english: Dancing is fun!
  - japanese: 大きい声で喋らないこと。
    english: Not talking loudly.
  - japanese: フォークじゃなくて、お箸を使うこと。
    english: Not using a fork, using chopsticks.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/こと
false_friends:
  - term: のがすき
    meaning: Like doing, Love doing
    kind: synonym
  - term: の (possession)
    meaning: Verb nominalizer, The one who..., That which...
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことなの
    meaning: (A) is (Description of A), (A) means that (Description of A)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということ
    meaning: ~ing, The ~ that ~ (Nominalization)
    kind: synonym
