grammar_point: ということだ
jlpt: N3
meaning: I heard that, Rumor has it that, It is said that, It means that
meaning_warning: Can be rephrased to とのことだ if expresses hearsay.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Like ということ, an expression used for nominalizing a phrase in the fashion of 'the ~ that ~',ということだmakes
  use of theauxiliary verbだ(orです), and stresses that the nominalized phrase 'is' the case. This phrase
  is often translated as 'I heard that', or 'it is said that', but literally, it is closer to 'it is that
  it's ~'. Theだis what gives this expression a high degree of certainty, therefore implying that the speaker
  has heard the statement elsewhere, and is sure of its validity.ということだcan be added to the end of any
  phrase that the speaker wants to highlight as being something that is known.ということだ is regularly paired
  with other expressions that show the 'source' of information, such as によると, orによれば.When ということだ is being
  used to express hearsay (statements that cannot easily be proven), it can be be rephrased as とのことだ.
  The literal difference between these two phrases is as follows:ということだ - It can be explained that (A)
  is ~ (more emphasis on the information)とのことだ - The statement of (A) has been applied to ~ (more emphasis
  on the source that 'applied' the information)Cautionということだis considered to be more formal thanそうだwhen
  reporting information that has been heard from another source. This is primarily due toということだexpressing
  something that is thought to be a fact, whileそうだretains the nuance of being something that is a speculation/guess.
examples:
  - japanese: この井戸水は汚染されているということだ。
    english: It is said that this well is contaminated.
  - japanese: この魚は全く臭くない。まだ新鮮と言う事だ。
    english: This fish doesn't smell at all. It means that it's fresh.
  - japanese: 先生によると、この病気は薬では治せないということだ。
    english: According to the doctor, (it is said that) this sickness cannot be cured with medicine.
  - japanese: 大阪府警によれば、犯人はまだ逃げているということだ。
    english: It is said that the criminal is still on the run, according to the Osaka prefectural police.
  - japanese: 地域によってルールが違うということだ。
    english: It means that the rules differ depending on the area.
  - japanese: 地域によってルールが違うとのことだ。
    english: It is said that the rules differ depending on the area.
  - japanese: 彼は家族に内緒で旅行に行ったそうだ。
    english: I heard that he went on a trip without telling his family.
  - japanese: 彼は家族に内緒で旅行に行ったということだ。
    english: It is said that he went on a trip without telling his family.
  - japanese: イルカは動物の中で頭が一番いいという事だ。
    english: It is said that dolphins are the smartest of all animals.
  - japanese: 田中さんと山田さんは、秘密で付き合っているという事だ。
    english: It is said that Tanaka-san and Yamada-san are dating in secret. (rumor has it)
  - japanese: 人によって考え方が違うという事だ。
    english: It is said that different people have different ways of thinking.
  - japanese: それはただ文化が違うという事だ。
    english: That means that their cultures are different. (it is said)
  - japanese: 忍耐先生によりますと、ガンの治療方法がとうとう見つかったという事です。
    english: According to professor Nintai, (it is said that) the cure for cancer has been finally discovered.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ということだ
false_friends:
  - term: ことなの
    meaning: (A) is (Description of A), (A) means that (Description of A)
    kind: synonym
  - term: だって
    meaning: I heard/was said, Because, But, Even or also, Even if or even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: とか
    meaning: I heard that… something like, They said ... or something
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということ
    meaning: ~ing, The ~ that ~ (Nominalization)
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうだ
    meaning: I heard that, It is said that
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ①
    meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
    kind: synonym
