grammar_point: より
jlpt: N4
meaning: More than (or equal to), Over・(and) above, Any more・Greater, Exceeding
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In N5, we learned about the use ofよりthat is seen when making comparisons inより～のほうが. However,
  in this lesson, we will take a look at how thiscase marking particlecan be used by itself. When used
  alone, this particle expresses that (A) (a noun or verb) is being compared to (B) (a noun or verb that
  is regularly paired with an adjective). The word thatよりis directly attached to will always be 'less
  than' the comparison being made. However, the overall expression is used to describe that (B) is 'more'
  (something) than (A).CautionIn many textbooks,よりis taught as meaning 'more', but the word thatよりis attached
  to will actually be the thing that is 'less' (something). The word/quote that hasがattached to it will
  be the thing that is 'more' (adjective). This is particularly confusing whenよりis not directly attached
  to a word, something which is common in casual spoken language.In this sentence, because theがis attached
  toこれ,これis the thing that is 'more expensive'. Asよりis not actually directly connected to any other word,
  it therefore means thatこれis expensive, compared to 'other things'. When you seeよりlike this, just pretend
  that it says 'other things' before it.
examples:
  - japanese: パンダはバナナより重い。
    english: Pandas are heavier than bananas.
  - japanese: 太陽はロウソクより明るい。
    english: The sun is brighter than a candle.
  - japanese: これがより高いものになります。
    english: This is the thing that would be more expensive. (Compared to everything else that is here)
  - japanese: あなたの絵は私の絵より上手。
    english: Your paintings are better than mine.
  - japanese: 月曜日より日曜日がいい。
    english: Sunday is better than Monday.
  - japanese: 日本語は英語より話しにくい。
    english: Japanese is harder to speak than English.
  - japanese: いつも飲んでいる水より好き。
    english: I like this (drink) more than the water that I usually drink.
  - japanese: スポーツをするより、ゲームの方が楽しい。
    english: Video games are more exciting than sports.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/より
false_friends:
  - term: ほど～ない
    meaning: Is not as…as, Isn't... like..., Not to the extent of...
    kind: synonym
  - term: より～のほうが
    meaning: To be more ~ than ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: というより
    meaning: '...is more of a... than a..., Rather than saying that...'
    kind: synonym
  - term: 以上に
    meaning: More than, No less than, Even more
    kind: synonym
  - term: こそ
    meaning: For sure, For certain, Even more so, Underlined or bolded text
    kind: synonym
  - term: 以上 ①
    meaning: More than (or equal to), Over・(and) above, Any more・Greater, Exceeding
    kind: synonym
