grammar_point: ほど～ない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Even, To even, To the extent of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Another expression that uses thenounほど 'an extent' in Japanese, isほど～ない. In the (A) part of a
  sentence, an extent will be highlighted, before the (B) part of the sentence will use ない to negate that
  extent, saying that it has not been reached. This phrase can be translated as 'it isn't like (A)', 'it's
  not to the point of (A)'. Literally it means 'if (A) is the extent, then (B) is not true'.ほど will regularly
  be used after a verb or noun, while ない is more likely to be used after a verb,い-Adjective, orな-Adjective(as
  it is describing something about ほど).While this grammar point may be used for expressing that an extent
  has not been reached, it is also frequently used for making comparisons between two things. In these
  cases, it states that 'the example/limit of (A) is something that cannot be reached/repeated by (B)'.
  This is similar to '(B) is not as ~ as (A)' in English.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は思ったほど暑くなかった。
    english: Today wasn't as hot as I expected.
  - japanese: 悩むほどの事じゃない。
    english: It is nothing to worry about so much. (This is not as serious as you think it is)
  - japanese: 自転車は車程速くないけど、健康にいいから自転車で会社に行っています。
    english: Bicycles aren't as fast as cars, but it is good for my health, so I ride my bike to work.
  - japanese: この世にこのカレーほど辛い食べ物はない。
    english: There is no food as spicy as this curry in the world.
  - japanese: お母さんほどケーキ作りが上手な人はどこにもいない。
    english: There is no one in this world that is as good as my mom at baking cakes.
  - japanese: 電車は飛行機程速くないけど、電車程安い乗り物はない。
    english: Trains are not as fast as planes, but there isn't anything like a train when it comes to
      cheap transportation.
  - japanese: 君の母程優しい人はいない。
    english: There isn't anyone as nice as your mom.
  - japanese: 東京程人口が多い都会はないと思う。
    english: I think that there isn't another city with a large population like Tokyo's.
  - japanese: 待って！あなたほど速く走れないんだ！
    english: Wait! I can't run as fast as you!
  - japanese: 思っていた程大変な仕事ではなかった。
    english: The job was not as rough as I thought it would be.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ほど～ない
false_friends:
  - term: より～のほうが
    meaning: To be more ~ than ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: より
    meaning: More than, Over
    kind: synonym
  - term: ほど
    meaning: The more, About, To the extent that, So much… that
    kind: synonym
  - term: まで
    meaning: Even, To even, To the extent of
    kind: synonym
