grammar_point: じゃあるまいし
jlpt: N1
meaning: You are not ~ so..., it isn't ~ so...
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: じゃ orではあるまいしis an expression which can be translated in a similar way to 'it is not (A), so it
  is not (B)', or 'you are not (A), so you can't (B)', and is often used for criticism of something acting
  in a way that is not befitting of it.まい is anauxiliary verbwhich highlights negative-volitional statements.
  This means that it has a similar meaning to ないだろう. Due to this, the combination of では, the う-Verb ある
  'to be', まい 'not as if', and し, the particle that highlights reasons, all combine to have a literal
  meaning of 'it is not as if it's (A), so therefore (B)'.じゃあるまいしwill be used after nouns, or phrases
  that have been nominalized with something like の.The statement that followsじゃあるまいしwill state the speaker's
  opinion in relation to (A), and will almost always be negative.
examples:
  - japanese: 親に止められているのではあるまいし、好きに自分が行きたいところに行けばいいんじゃないの？
    english: You are not being stopped by your parents, so why don't you just go wherever you want to?
  - japanese: 減るわけではあるまいし、少しぐらい貸してくれてもいいじゃん。
    english: It's not like it's going to decrease, so why don't you just let me borrow it?
  - japanese: もう子供じゃあるまいし、行動する前に少しでも考えたらどうなの？
    english: You aren't a child anymore, so why don't you think a little before taking action.
  - japanese: 子供じゃあるまいしお菓子を見つけた途端に全部食べるな！
    english: You are not a child, so don't instantly eat every sweet you stumble upon!
  - japanese: 'A: 「野菜好きじゃない！」B: 「赤ちゃんでもあるまいしもう駄々をこねるのはよして！」'
    english: 'A: ''I don''t like veggies!'' B: ''You are not a baby, so stop whining already!'''
  - japanese: 'A：「行ってきます！」 B: 「待って、砂漠じゃあるまいし、外に出たら厚着をしろよ！」'
    english: 'A: ''I am heading out!'' B: ''Wait, it''s not a desert (outside), so if you go out then
      dress warmly!'''
  - japanese: アニメじゃあるまいし、かわいい女の子は急に空から落ちてこない。
    english: This is not an anime, so a cute girl won't suddenly fall out of the sky!
  - japanese: 田中さん！新入社員でもあるまいし！そんな簡単なミスはすべきじゃないよ。
    english: Tanaka-san! You are not a new employee, so you should not make such simple mistakes.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/じゃあるまいし
false_friends: []
