grammar_point: しかも
jlpt: N2
meaning: Moreover, Furthermore
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: しかもis a conjunction in Japanese which is commonly translated as either 'furthermore', or 'moreover'.
  This is a somewhat formal grammar pattern which indicates that both (A) and (B) exist at the same time,
  or are in unison.しかもitself focuses on the overall topic, so will be used for giving objective opinions,
  such as observable facts, rather than personal opinions.Asしかもis a conjunction, it may be used between
  two phrases, or sometimes at the beginning of a second sentence, when referring back to the first.Often,
  (A) will be considered the 'base' information, while (B) is extra information added on top of (A), or
  further explaining (A).Fun-fact - Originally,しかもcame from the combination of the archaic interjection然'as
  such', or 'like that', and the particle も 'too', or 'also'. In this way, some reflection can be seen
  between it and modern English phrases like 'additionally', where the (B) information is simply adding
  on to what is already known about (A).Fun-fact - In modern writing,しかもmay also appear as either而もor併も,
  although both are quite rare.
examples:
  - japanese: このテレビは画質がめちゃくちゃいい。しかも、受信機がついていないから受信料を払わなくてもいい。
    english: This TV has a very good resolution, and what's more, it doesn't have a receiver, so you don't
      have to pay a TV reception fee.
  - japanese: 彼女はとても頭がいいし性格もいい。しかも、美人だからもてないわけがない。
    english: She is very smart and has a great personality. Moreover, she is beautiful, so there is no
      way that she is not popular.
  - japanese: あの店は古いし汚い。しかも品揃えもよくないから、そのうち潰れるだろう。
    english: That store is old and dirty. Moreover, they don't have a good selection of goods, so they
      will probably go out of business soon.
  - japanese: 私の鼻はとても大きく、しかも曲がっている。
    english: My nose is big and what's more, it is crooked.
  - japanese: 彼は日本語が上手。しかも、漢字が綺麗に書ける。
    english: He is good at Japanese and furthermore, he can write kanji beautifully.
  - japanese: しかも、舞台の途中に足が絡んで、転けた。
    english: Furthermore, while on stage, he tripped and fell.
  - japanese: あの人は常識を知らない。しかも、厚かましい。
    english: That person does not have common sense. Moreover, he is brazen.
  - japanese: あのスーパーの肉は安い。しかも、脂がのっている。
    english: That supermarket's meat is cheap. Moreover, it is marbled (good quality).
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/しかも
false_friends:
  - term: おまけに
    meaning: In addition, On top of that, What is more, To make matters worse
    kind: synonym
  - term: 又〜も
    meaning: Moreover, Additionally, And also, In addition, Furthermore, Or
    kind: synonym
  - term: なお②
    meaning: In addition, Incidentally, Furthermore, Moreover
    kind: synonym
  - term: それに
    meaning: And, Besides, Moreover, In addition
    kind: synonym
  - term: その上
    meaning: Besides, In addition, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: 更に
    meaning: Even more or further, Again, More and more
    kind: synonym
