grammar_point: もっとも
jlpt: N3
meaning: Although, But, However, For all that, Provided that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: もっとも, sometimes also seen as尤も, is aconjunctionthat is used to clarify when (A) is not the only
  important thing to be considered. This expression is usually translated as 'although'. However, 'for
  all that', or 'with that said' are also accurate translations, depending on the context. Let's look
  at a few examples.Due toもっともoffering clarification about something, the (B) phrase will often end with
  が, けど,けれども, and other similar expressions.Whenもっともis used, the speaker is agreeing that (A) is true,
  but not the whole picture. As a noun itself,尤も can be described as 道理に適う, which means 'to stand to reason'.
  This nuance is kept, and may also be used as an accurate translation forもっともas a conjunction.
examples:
  - japanese: 私の妹はピアノを弾くのがじょうずだ。もっとも、弾けるのは一曲だけだ。
    english: My sister is good at playing the piano. Although, she can only play one song.
  - japanese: 俺はすき焼きが大好きだ。もっとも、毎日食べれる訳では無い。
    english: I love sukiyaki. Although, it does not mean that I can eat it everyday.
  - japanese: 私は韓国についてものすごく詳しいです。もっとも、韓国には行った事が無いけど。
    english: I am very knowledgeable about Korea, although I have never been.
  - japanese: 今日は会社に自分のパソコンを持ってきた。もっとも、自分のパソコンはいらないが。
    english: I brought my own computer to work today, although I don't need to.
  - japanese: この宝石は非常に貴重だ。尤も私が持っている中で一番大切なわけではない。
    english: This gem is incredibly precious. However, it does not mean it is the most valuable among
      the ones I have.
  - japanese: あの人の話は、ある程度まで信用できるようだ。尤もまだ疑わしい部分もあるけど。
    english: It seems that that man's story can be trusted to some extent. However, there are still parts
      I doubt.
  - japanese: ここにたくさんの杯があります。尤も、私はどれが本物の聖杯かを教えることができませんが。上手く選んでください。
    english: There are many cups here. However, I cannot tell you which one is the real holy grail. Choose
      wisely.
  - japanese: 日本語を話せます。尤も、少しだけですが。
    english: I can speak Japanese. But only a bit.
  - japanese: 君は正しい。オレの一番好きなものは、ラーメンだ。尤もいつも食べられるわけではない。
    english: You are right! My favorite one is ramen. But it doesn't mean I can always eat it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/もっとも
false_friends:
  - term: それなのに
    meaning: And yet, Despite this
    kind: synonym
  - term: のなかで～がいちばん～
    meaning: Out of ~, ~ is the best/most ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: しかしながら
    meaning: However, Nevertheless, But
    kind: synonym
