grammar_point: かと思ったら・かと思うと
jlpt: N2
meaning: Then again, Just when I thought, No sooner than
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When theadverbial particleか is combined with と, the う-Verb思う, and either of the hypothetical
  markers たら or と, it forms a compound that is used to illustrate uncertainty about whether (A) has been
  finalized or not. In most cases, this translates as '(A), then again (B)', 'just when I thought (A),
  (B)', or 'no sooner than (A), (B)'. Literally, the meaning is close to 'before (A) could even be confirmed
  as having happened, (B)'.かと思うとandかと思ったらwill regularly appear after verbs in either their dictionary
  or past-tense forms.Alternatively, this structure may also be seen following nouns, especially when
  the meaning is focused on the speaker's feelings about (A).Either なの (or の when used with verbs) may
  appear between the target phrase andかと思ったらwhen the (B) phrase includes the speaker's feelings.Caution
  - Occasionally, か may be omitted from this phrase, leaving onlyと思うとandと思ったら. Although the meaning is
  exactly the same, omission of the か will make the expression sound softer.
examples:
  - japanese: 何を言い出すかと思ったら、みんなの前で俺の悪口を言い出した。
    english: Just when I thought of something to say, he started bad-mouthing me in front of everyone.
  - japanese: 赤ちゃんが泣き止んだかと思ったら、また大声で泣き始めた。
    english: Just when I thought the baby had stopped crying, he started to cry loudly again.
  - japanese: 娘が宿題を始めるのかと思うと、パソコンを開いてユーチューブを見始めた。
    english: Just when I thought my daughter was going to start doing her homework, she opened the computer
      and started watching YouTube.
  - japanese: 子供が転んだかと思うと、立ち上がって走り出した。
    english: Just when I thought my kid fell down, she got up and started running.
  - japanese: 田中さんは冷たい人かと思ったら、ただ人見知りなだけだった。
    english: No sooner than thinking that Tanaka-san is a cold person, I found out that he was just shy.
  - japanese: 今日の試合が最後かと思うと、悲しくなる。
    english: Just when I remembered that today's game is the last one, I got sad.
  - japanese: 新入社員が入ってきたと思ったら、次の日には仕事を辞めていた。
    english: Just when I thought a new employee had joined us, he had quit by the next day.
  - japanese: 息子と息子の友達が喧嘩をしていると思うと、友達とゲラゲラ笑いながらゲームをしていた。
    english: Just when I thought that my son and his friend were fighting, I heard him giggling while
      playing video games with his friend.
  - japanese: 彼はあれだけ怒られて悲しんでいるかと思ったら、すぐに笑いだした。
    english: Just when I thought that alone would make him so mad he would get sad, he started laughing.
  - japanese: 喧嘩をしていた彼女は、機嫌がよくなったかと思ったらすぐに悪くなった。
    english: Just when I thought that the fighting woman's mood had improved, it got worse.
  - japanese: 仕事をし始めるかと思うと携帯電話を触り始めた。
    english: No sooner than work began, he started using his cell phone. (just when (I) thought)
  - japanese: ミスが続いたのであきれられたかと思ったら、そうでもなかった。
    english: Just when I thought they would grow disgusted of their continued mistakes, they didn't.
  - japanese: 飽くまで譲らないタイプの人かと思ったら、かなり柔軟な人でした。
    english: Just when I thought he was the type of person who wouldn't surrender to the end, he turned
      out to be soft.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かと思ったら-かと思うと
false_friends:
  - term: なり
    meaning: As soon as, The moment, When
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとたんに
    meaning: The instant or moment, As soon as, Just as
    kind: synonym
  - term: か〜ないかのうちに
    meaning: Right after, As soon as, Just when, Barely
    kind: synonym
  - term: 直ちに
    meaning: At once, Immediately, As soon as
    kind: synonym
  - term: と思いきや
    meaning: Thought...but, When...thought that...but, Despite having thought...
    kind: synonym
