grammar_point: あまりに
jlpt: N3
meaning: So much...that, (Way) too...
meaning_warning: Adverbial あまり
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Being the adverbial form of余る 'excess', あまりに is a grammar structure that is used to convey an
  'excessive' amount of something that caused a certain result. あまりに will almost always be used in sentences
  expressing some sort of surprise/shock about the degree of (A). Often, あまりに is translated simply as
  'so much (A) that (B)', or 'way too much (A)'.In the last example, we can see that あまり will be followed
  by の when linked to a noun. Occasionally, にも will be used instead ofに. This just emphasizes the 'excess'
  of (A) further.As the literal meaning of あまりに is quite close to 'excessively', it may be easier to remember
  this translation, rather than 'so much (A) that (B)'. Usually, 'it is excessively (A), so (B)' will
  cover most possible nuances.Cautionあんまり is a colloquial variant of あまり that is often said, but should
  be avoided in any form of formal/official writing.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日の仕事はあまりに楽過ぎて仕事をした感じがしない。
    english: Work today was so easy that I don't feel like I worked at all.
  - japanese: 今朝は会社にあまりに遅く着いたため、先輩に怒られた。
    english: I got to the company so late that I was yelled at by my senpai.
  - japanese: 彼女はあまりの恐怖に、声をあげて叫んだ。
    english: She was so scared that she screamed out loud.
  - japanese: 友達の話しがあまりにもつまらなくて途中からほとんど聞いてなかった。
    english: My friend's story was so boring that I stopped paying attention halfway.
  - japanese: トマトはあんまり好きじゃない。
    english: I don't like tomatoes too much.
  - japanese: この映画はあんまりおもしろくなかったね。
    english: This movie wasn't excessively interesting.
  - japanese: 余りに早く着いてしまった。
    english: I unfortunately arrived too early.
  - japanese: そのケーキは余りに大きすぎて、食べられない。
    english: That cake is too big to eat.
  - japanese: 彼らは余りに忙しそうにみえたから、声をかけるのをやめた。
    english: They looked far too busy, so I decided to not talk to them.
  - japanese: 余りに寒すぎて、帰ってきてしまった。
    english: It was too cold, so I turned back.
  - japanese: 余りに失礼じゃないか。いつも助けてあげているのに。
    english: Aren't you being way too rude? To think that I am always helping you out.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/あまりに
false_friends:
  - term: すぎる
    meaning: Too much, Very
    kind: synonym
  - term: なかなか
    meaning: Very, Quite, Considerably
    kind: synonym
  - term: あまり
    meaning: So much...that
    kind: synonym
