grammar_point: との
jlpt: N1
meaning: That, To
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: とのis acompound particlemade up of thecase-marking particleと in itsquotationuse, and thecase-marking
  particleの. Effectively, this marks the previous statement as a quote, before の then indicates that the
  whole statement is an attribute of the following word. In many cases, this will simply be translated
  as ‘that’, or ‘to’.As always with thequotationuse of と, it will appear after almost any word, and may
  or may not be separated from nouns and な-Adjectives with だ.This expression indicates that the preceding
  information is information of some type, and will therefore usually be followed by a noun that highlights
  what type of communication it was. Common examples include提案‘proposal’,知らせ　’notice’,意向‘inclination’,依頼‘request’,見方‘point
  of view’,指摘‘pointing out’,報告‘report’, etc.
examples:
  - japanese: この周辺で誘拐事件が起きたとの放送があったが、犯人の特徴については放送されなかった。
    english: There was an announcement that there was a kidnapping in this area, but the description of
      the culprit was not mentioned.
  - japanese: この店はほかの店舗に比べてきたないとのクレームが何件も寄せられているがどうなってるんだい。
    english: There was a complaint that this store is dirty compared to the other store, would you mind
      explaining?
  - japanese: 本部からこの喫茶店の接客は雑だとの報告を受けました。
    english: We have received a report from headquarters, saying that the customer service at this cafe
      is sloppy.
  - japanese: ここの先生はヤブ医者との噂を最近聞くけど本当なのだろうか。
    english: Recently I have been hearing rumors that he is an unskilled doctor, but I wonder how true
      that is.
  - japanese: あの客はクレーマーだとの指摘を先輩から受けたので、あのお客さんを接客するときはいつもより丁寧に接客するつもりだ。
    english: My senpai told me that that customer makes a lot of complaints, so I am planning to be extra
      polite when interacting with them.
  - japanese: 多くの経済学者は、景気が回復しつつあるとの見方を維持した。
    english: Many economists maintain the opinion that business conditions are in the process of recovering.
  - japanese: 政府関係者は電気自動車の普及を推進するとの意向を強調した。
    english: The government officials stressed that their intention was to promote the popularization
      of electric vehicles.
  - japanese: 田中さんは新しい反トラスト法が抜け穴だらけとの意見を表明した。
    english: Mr. Tanaka made clear his view that the new antitrust law is full of loopholes.
  - japanese: 探偵の伝記：「２００２年、彼は、南アフリカに連れて行った男性の家出人を探してほしいとの依頼を受けた。」
    english: 'The biography of a detective: ''In 2002, he received a request to find a runaway man that
      went to South Africa.'''
  - japanese: あの日、 雪崩が発生したとの報告もあったが、けが人が出ているかどうかは確認されていなかった。
    english: That day there was also a report that an avalanche had occurred, but it was not clear whether
      any injured people had appeared.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/との
false_friends: []
