grammar_point: おまけに
jlpt: N2
meaning: In addition, On top of that, What is more, To make matters worse
meaning_warning: 話し言葉
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: お負けにis a phrase which often functions as a conjunction between the (A) and (B) parts of a sentence
  in order to show that (B) is 'in addition to (A)'.This structure stems from the common use of the noun
  お負け which indicates a 'discount' or 'freebie' that is added in addition to the base of (A). Despite
  お負け itself primarily being used for positive thingsお負けにmay convey 'in addition', 'on top of that', or
  'what's more' regardless of whether the original topic is a good thing or not. However, (A) and (B)
  will always either be both good things, or both bad things, never a mixture of both.Being a combination
  of お負け and に, this phrase will appear either at the beginning of a new sentence, or at the beginning
  of a second clause of a 2-part sentence.Fun-fact - An important distinction between phrases likeそれにandお負けにis
  thatお負けにkeeps its original meaning of (B) being some kind of 'bonus'. What this means is that whatever
  the speaker is trying to convey, (A) by itself is enough to meet some specific qualifications, and (B)
  is just adding 'insult to injury', or 'icing on the cake', depending on whether it is a good or a bad
  thing.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は仕事に遅刻して部長に怒られたし、おまけに取引先の人も怒らせちゃったから、今日は最悪の日だったよ。
    english: Today was one of the worst days because I got yelled at by my boss for being late to work,
      and to make it worse, I upset one of our clients.
  - japanese: 昨日は彼氏に美味しいご飯をご馳走してもらって、おまけにプレゼントまでもらった。
    english: Yesterday, my boyfriend treated me to a delicious dinner and on top of that he even gave
      me a gift.
  - japanese: パソコンが全然立ち上がらない。おまけにスマホの充電がないから仕事が全然できない。
    english: My computer won't turn on. To make matters worse, my smartphone is out of battery, so I can't
      work at all.
  - japanese: 家を掃除した。御負けにランチを作っといた。
    english: I have cleaned the house. On top of that, I have also made lunch. (what is more)
  - japanese: 自転車が盗まれただけではなく、御負けに雨が降りそうだ。
    english: Not only has my bike been stolen, but to make matters worse, it looks like it is going to
      rain. (what is more)
  - japanese: この中古のコンピューターは、ハードディスクの速度は速いし、御負けに安いし、すごくいいよ。
    english: This second-hand computer has a hard disc that is fast, and what is more, it is cheap. It
      is really great. (on top of that)
  - japanese: 競馬で負け、御負けに帰りに財布を落とし、最悪だ。
    english: I lost at the horse races and, to make matters worse, I lost my wallet on the way home. Worst
      day ever.
  - japanese: 体重が激増し、御負けに髪まで薄くなった。ストレスですね。
    english: On top of my hair thinning, my weight suddenly increased. This is definitely stress. (what
      is more)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/おまけに
false_friends:
  - term: しかも
    meaning: Moreover, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: その上
    meaning: Besides, In addition, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: それに
    meaning: And, Besides, Moreover, In addition
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上に
    meaning: As well, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
