grammar_point: において・における
jlpt: N3
meaning: In, On, At, Regarding, In terms of
meaning_warning: For why におく and においた are not used to modify nouns, click here.
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: においてis a combination of thecase marking particleにin, and the接続語(conjunction) おいて. Either於いて,
  or於ける may be used, with no difference in meaning.においてitself is usually translated as 'at', 'in', 'on',
  or 'regarding'.において(or における) will be used after nouns, or when connecting one noun to another. In the
  case of connecting one noun to another, における, orにおいてのwill be required.においての(andにおける) are primarily used
  in formal language, and will not commonly be used in daily speech.Fun Fact於is quite an interesting kanji,
  and has a meaning similar to 'within the scope of'. Basically, it highlights all possible things that
  exist within a given topic/space. This is what enables the very broad range of meanings thatにおいてのandにおけるmay
  be used for.
examples:
  - japanese: 現代において、インターネットなしの生活は考えられない。
    english: In this day and age, it is impossible to think of a life without the internet.
  - japanese: 自分の住んでいる地域における、井戸水の汚染について研究をしている。
    english: I am doing research regarding pollution in wells in the area that I am living in.
  - japanese: これはこの工事においての難しい作業になります。
    english: This is the most difficult work in terms of this construction.
  - japanese: 田舎における高齢化の問題は深刻です。
    english: The aging population in the countryside is very serious.
  - japanese: 日本においての、電車やバスなしの生活は考えられない。
    english: Within the scope of Japan, it is impossible to think of a life without buses or trains.
  - japanese: 会社においての、パワハラについてのミーティングが行われた。
    english: A meeting was held regarding power harassment within the scope of our company.
  - japanese: 現代に於いて、電気のない生活は考えられない。
    english: In this day and age, it is impossible to think of life without electricity.
  - japanese: 東京に於ける環境についての会議を行います。
    english: A meeting concerning the environment will take place in Tokyo.
  - japanese: アクメ・コーポレーションの商品は価格に於いては一流だが、品質に於いては三流だ。
    english: Acme Corporation products are top grade in terms of price, but poor in terms of product quality.
  - japanese: 日常生活に於いて、必要なものはすべてそろっています。
    english: In daily life, I have gathered everything necessary.
  - japanese: この文脈に於いての「空」は、「そら」ではなく「から」だと思う。
    english: I think this kanji is read 'kara' rather than 'sora' in this context.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/において-における
false_friends:
  - term: にかかわる
    meaning: To relate to, To have to do with, Concerning, Depends on
    kind: synonym
  - term: について
    meaning: Concerning, About, Regarding
    kind: synonym
  - term: に関する・に関して
    meaning: Related to, About, Regarding
    kind: synonym
  - term: に対して
    meaning: In contrast to, While, In regard to, Whereas
    kind: synonym
  - term: に取って
    meaning: To, For, Concerning
    kind: synonym
  - term: にて
    meaning: In, At, With, Using, By
    kind: synonym
  - term: で (at)
    meaning: At, In
    kind: synonym
