grammar_point: ば〜ほど
jlpt: N3
meaning: The more…the more
meaning_warning: The conditional part of the structure is sometimes omitted.  この豆を食べれば食べるほど痩せるらしい。→ この豆を食べるほど痩せるらしい。
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ば～ほど is a combination of theconjunction particleば, and thenounほど. It is used in a similar way
  to 'the more ~ the more' in English. Literally, it just highlights that 'if it is (A), then the limit
  of (A) will be controlled only by its extent'.To use ば～ほど,ばwill be paired with thehypothetical formof
  any verb/い-Adjective(or noun/な-Adjectivewith なら on the end), before the same word will be repeated in
  itsattributive form. After this, a (B) part of the sentence will highlight what the expected result
  of (A) is.Asである(the formal version ofだ) may replace な withな-Adjectives(or なら with nouns), sometimesであるwill
  be used instead of な/なら, in regard to both nouns andな-Adjectives.CautionWhen this expression is used
  withするverbs, the noun thatするis linked to in theばpart of the sentence does not need to be repeated in
  the ほど part.Fun FactSometimes, theば'hypothetical' part of the sentence will be omitted altogether, leaving
  ほど to perform a similar function by itself.
examples:
  - japanese: いい肉は噛めば噛むほど味が出る。
    english: The more you chew good meat, the more flavorful it gets.
  - japanese: 公園は広ければ広いほどいい。
    english: The bigger the park is, the better it is.
  - japanese: ビルは丈夫ならば丈夫なほど安心できる。
    english: The stronger a building is, the safer you feel.
  - japanese: プロならばプロほど速く泳げる。
    english: The more of a pro you are, the faster you can swim.
  - japanese: アプリが便利であれば便利であるほどユーザーが増える。
    english: The more useful an app is, the more users will increase.
  - japanese: 職人であれば職人であるほど凄いものが作れる。
    english: The more of a craftsman a person is, the more likely that they will be able to make something
      amazing.
  - japanese: 漢字の勉強をすればするほど色んな本が読めるようになる。
    english: The more you study kanji, the more you will be able to read various books.
  - japanese: 掃除をすればするほど、部屋が綺麗になっていく。
    english: The more you clean, the cleaner your room will get.
  - japanese: 身体を鍛えるほど、身体が強くなる。
    english: The more you workout, the stronger your body gets.
  - japanese: この豆を食べれば食べるほど痩せるらしい。
    english: I hear that the more of these beans you eat the thinner you will become.
  - japanese: 早ければ早い程いい。
    english: The sooner the better.
  - japanese: 綺麗ならば綺麗なほど見続けたくなる。
    english: The more beautiful it is, the more I want to continue looking at it.
  - japanese: スーパーは近ければ近い程買い物に行きやすい。
    english: The closer the supermarket, the easier it is to go shopping.
  - japanese: 勝てば勝つほど、またやりたくなる。
    english: The more you win, the more you want to play again.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ば-ほど
false_friends:
  - term: どんどん
    meaning: Progressively, Rapidly increasing, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: ば
    meaning: If… then, (Conditional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: 一方だ
    meaning: More and more, Continue to, Keep on, -er and -er
    kind: synonym
  - term: ますます
    meaning: Increasingly, More and more, Decreasingly, Less and less, Keep -ing
    kind: synonym
  - term: ほど
    meaning: The more, About, To the extent that, So much… that
    kind: synonym
