grammar_point: にあたり・にあたって
jlpt: N2
meaning: When, When doing something, On the occasion, At the time
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: に当たりorに当たってis a formal grammar pattern in Japanese used to convey the meaning of 'at the time
  of (A)', 'when doing (A)', or 'on the occasion of (A)'. Likeに際して'on the occasion of (A)', it will often
  be used in regard to preparation for future events. This structure is a combination of に, and the う-Verb当たる
  'to hit', or 'to come into contact' in either its formal-conjunctive form or て-form.に当たりwill appear
  following verbs in their dictionary form, or nouns. There are two primary nuances that this structure
  will be used for, so let's look at a few examples of each.The first is when (A) is some sort of special
  occasion or condition from which (B) will be done.The second is when (A) is some sort of goal or target
  for which (B) will be the means or measures in response to that goal.Caution - Unlikeに際して, which can
  be used for either positive or negative situations,に当たりwill primarily only be used for positive or neutral
  situations.
examples:
  - japanese: 就活を始めるに当たり、新しいスーツを買った。
    english: On the occasion of starting my job search, I bought a new suit.
  - japanese: 卒業にあたって、みんなで卒業旅行として韓国に行った。
    english: On the occasion of my graduation, we all went to Korea as a graduation trip.
  - japanese: 転職をするに当たり、インターネットで自分に合った会社を探すことにした。
    english: At the time of changing jobs, I looked for a company that would suit me well on the internet.
  - japanese: 新しいお店の開店にあたって、オープニングスタッフを募集しました。
    english: We recruited opening staff at the time of opening a new restaurant.
  - japanese: 母の葬式に際して必要な書類を準備した。
    english: I gathered all the necessary documents at the time of my mother's funeral. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 母の葬式に当たって必要な書類を準備した。
    english: I gathered all the necessary documents at the time of my mother's funeral. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: レーザーの試験に当たり、必ず保護メガネを着用してください。
    english: Be sure to wear safety glasses when testing the laser. (on the occasion of)
  - japanese: 課長の退職に当たって、お別れの一言を述べさせていただきます。
    english: Let me say a few words of farewell on the occasion of the section manager's retirement.
  - japanese: パスポートの申請に当たり、顔写真を必ず持ってきてください。
    english: Be sure to bring headshots at the time of passport application.
  - japanese: 彫刻を彫るに当たり、彫刻刀を買い換えた。
    english: On the occasion of carving a sculpture, I bought a new chisel.
  - japanese: 彼と付き合うに当たり、幾つかの条件を提示した。
    english: At the time of dating him, I suggested several conditions.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にあたり-にあたって
false_friends:
  - term: につき
    meaning: Due to, On account of, Each or every
    kind: synonym
  - term: に際して
    meaning: On the occasion of, At the time of
    kind: synonym
  - term: 際に
    meaning: When, At the time of, In case of, On the occasion of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ついでに
    meaning: While you are at it, On the occasion
    kind: synonym
