grammar_point: ～てこそ
jlpt: N2
meaning: Only if, Because, By, Unless, Until
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In a similar way to how the particle こそ highlights a particular word as being the 'precise' or
  'exact' reason for something, its combination with the て-form of a verb will indicate that (B) is absolutely
  reliant on (A). This reliance can be translated in several different ways, and will usually become clear
  in the (B) part of sentences. Standard interpretations include 'only if (A), (B)', 'unless (A), (B)',
  or 'until (A), (B)'.The reliance that (B) has on (A) can be translated in several different ways, but
  the most common interpretations are that (A) will determine either the outcome, assessment, or evaluation
  of (B), based on the speaker's opinion, values, or understanding of the situation.
examples:
  - japanese: 海外に留学してこそ、日本食の美味しさが分かる。
    english: Only by studying abroad can one appreciate the deliciousness of Japanese food.
  - japanese: 親になってこそ、子育ての大変さがわかる。
    english: It's only when you become a parent that you understand how hard it is to raise a child.
  - japanese: チーム全員の責任を背負ってこそ、キャプテンになれる。
    english: You become a captain only if you take on the responsibility of the whole team.
  - japanese: 他のチームに勝ってこそ、世界一になれる。
    english: Only by beating other teams can we become the best in the world.
  - japanese: 日本へ行ってこそ、京都の魅力が分かる。
    english: Only by going to Japan, one can understand the charm of Kyoto.
  - japanese: 親になってこそ、子供は奇跡だという考え方が分かる。
    english: Only by becoming a parent, you can understand the mindset that children are miracles.
  - japanese: 優勝してこそ、自信に繋がる。
    english: It is only by winning that one becomes confident. (unless/until)
  - japanese: 全部揃えてこそのコレクションだ。
    english: It is a collection only by being complete. (because・until/unless)
  - japanese: 全員参加してこその遠足だ。
    english: It is only because everyone is participating that it is an outing. (until/unless)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/-てこそ
false_friends:
  - term: からこそ
    meaning: Emphasized because, Precisely because
    kind: synonym
  - term: こそ
    meaning: For sure, For certain, Even more so, Underlined or bolded text
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～ばこそ
    meaning: Precisely because, Only because, Because, Due to
    kind: synonym
