grammar_point: いくら〜でも
jlpt: N3
meaning: No matter how (much)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In a similar way to どんなに～ても, いくら～でも is regularly translated to 'no matter how (A), (B)'. However,
  unlike どんな (which is an abbreviation of どのような), いくら is anounthat comes from the kanji幾ら, meaning 'how
  much'. When partnered withても(with verbs andい-Adjectives), or でも (with nouns andな-Adjectives), the literal
  meaning means 'however much (A), (B)'.With いくら～でも, the (B) part of the phrase will usually highlight
  something that is being negated, giving the phrase it's 'no matter how much' nuance.Despite this trend
  of being used in sentences that contain ない or ありません, いくら～でも may also be seen in positive sentences.
  In these cases, despite not being negative, the (B) phrase will still be something that is surprising/unexpected
  in some way (due to its extent or amount).Fun Fact幾ら places more emphasis on the 'amount' of something,
  whileどんなにplaces more emphasis on the 'type', or 'style'. Due to this, いくら will be a better choice when
  the 'volume' of something is being highlighted, whileどんなにwill sound more natural when the 'state' is
  being discussed.Despite this small difference, いくら andどんなにare used fairly interchangeably in most situations.
examples:
  - japanese: あの人にいくら言っても、何も変わらないよ。
    english: No matter how much you tell him, he won't change.
  - japanese: いくら新しくても落としたら壊れるに決まってるじゃん。
    english: No matter how new it is, of course it is going to break if you drop it!
  - japanese: あの人のことがいくら嫌いでも、そんな事言ったら可哀そうだよ。
    english: No matter how much you dislike them, that is a hurtful thing to say.
  - japanese: いくら俺でもそんな重いものは持てないよ。
    english: No matter if it is me, I can't lift something that heavy. (Even if it is me, who is strong,
      I cant lift something that heavy)
  - japanese: 相談ならいくらでも聞いてあげるよ。
    english: I'll listen to you vent however much you need.
  - japanese: お菓子ならいくらでもあるから、好きなだけ持っていきな！
    english: As for snacks, I have plenty, so take all you want!
  - japanese: お金はいくら払ってもいいのでその靴を私に下さい。
    english: I will pay however much for those shoes, so please let me have them! (Amount only)
  - japanese: お金はどんなに払ってもいいのでその靴を私に下さい。
    english: I will pay whatever sort of money for those shoes, so please let me have them! (Possible
      amount or type. Dollar, yen, euro, etc)
  - japanese: いくら急いでも土曜日までには終わらない。
    english: No matter how quickly I do it, I won't finish before Saturday.
  - japanese: いくら泣いても、泣き止まない。
    english: No matter how much they cry, they won't cry themselves out.
  - japanese: 文プロを見つけるまでいくら文法を勉強しても、理解ができなかった。
    english: Before finding Bunpro, no matter how much I studied grammar I couldn't understand it.
  - japanese: いくら可愛くても、孫になんでも買ってあげるのは良くないですよ。
    english: No matter how cute your grandchildren are, it's not good to buy them whatever they want.
  - japanese: いくら頑張っても、彼にはかなわない。
    english: No matter how hard I try, I can't compete with him.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/いくら-でも
false_friends:
  - term: どんなに〜ても
    meaning: No matter how
    kind: synonym
  - term: どうしても
    meaning: Regardless of, No matter what
    kind: synonym
