grammar_point: 上
jlpt: N2
meaning: From the standpoint of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Attaching to nouns,上is asuffixthat highlights when something is being presented 'from the standpoint
  of (A)'. The 'standpoint' that上will indicate is usually a specific field or area of concern. The (B)
  part of the sentence will then go on to describe what exactly is being considered from that standpoint.上is
  fairly formal, and can be interpreted similarly to に関して 'in connection to', in that it is just expressing
  that (B) is being discussed in relation to (A).As上will be used with matters of concern, it is very frequently
  seen with words that express broad fields, such as work '仕事', 'education'教育, 'history'歴史, 'health'健康,
  'experience'経験, 'the law'法律, and other similar things.Caution - Despite expressing standpoints,上cannot
  be used to indicate an individual person's point of view. Because of this, it cannot be used as asuffixfor
  names of people or organizations that something is being considered from.
examples:
  - japanese: 法律上、伊勢海老を許可なく釣り上げて持って帰ることが禁止されている。
    english: From a legal standpoint, it is prohibited to fish for lobsters and bring them home without
      a permit.
  - japanese: 規則上、生徒は髪を染めてはいけないのに、髪を染めている生徒が複数います。
    english: From the standpoint of the rules, it is prohibited for the students to dye their hair, but
      there are a few students that have dyed hair.
  - japanese: 鈴木上、会社Aが会社Bに買収される事はいい事だと思っている。
    english: From the standpoint of Suzuki, he thinks that company A being bought by company B is a good
      thing. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 法律上、学校は個人情報を漏らしてはいけない。
    english: From a legal standpoint, schools must not leak personal information.
  - japanese: 予算上、その依頼は断るしかない。
    english: From a budget standpoint, I have no choice but to deny that request.
  - japanese: 規則上、このアパートでペットを飼うのは禁止です。
    english: From the standpoint of the rules, this apartment prohibits pets.
  - japanese: それは飽くまで計算上の話で、実際にはそう簡単にはいきません。
    english: That is a discussion that will only ever be viewed from the standpoint of forecasting. In
      practice, it wouldn't go that easily.
  - japanese: 立場上ああいう発言をしたが、個人的には争う気持ちは全くない。
    english: From that (situation's) standpoint, I made that sort of remark, but personally I'm not in
      the mood to quarrel at all.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/上
false_friends:
  - term: 上に
    meaning: As well, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
  - term: からすると・からすれば
    meaning: Judging from, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: から言うと
    meaning: Speaking in terms of, From the point of view of
    kind: synonym
