grammar_point: だが・ですが
jlpt: N4
meaning: But, Still, However, Nevertheless
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Whileだが(orですがas a polite equivalent) are classified as their own words, they are actually just
  combinations ofだ, orです, andが.だがis usually used as a formal way of saying 'but', or 'nevertheless'. Due
  to this, we can see thatだis being used to 'determine' that a statement is true, whileがsimply shows that
  there is other important information to follow.In this way,だがis very similar to the expression 'that
  may be, but…' in English.だがmay be used at the beginning of any phrase, or between sentences.CautionWhen
  usingですが, it will automatically mean that the rest of the sentence should also usepolite speech.To makeだがsound
  a little bit softer, sometimesねis added. However, this is not so common in modern-day Japanese, and
  is more limited to the older generation.Fun FactDue toだがandですがusingが(the formal equivalent ofけど), this
  phrase can sound quite stiff. Therefore, it is far more common to hearでもat the beginning of a sentence
  in casual speech.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は弁護士だが、頭が良くない、不思議だ。
    english: He is a lawyer, but he is not very smart… How odd.
  - japanese: 宝くじを100枚買った。だが、当たらなかった。
    english: I bought 100 lottery tickets. However, I didn't win.
  - japanese: 美容室に行ったのですが、高かったので帰りました。
    english: I went to the hair salon, but since it was expensive, I came home.
  - japanese: 君はいい人だと聞いた。だがね、まだ君を信用できない。
    english: I have heard that you are a good person. However, I can't trust you yet.
  - japanese: 大統領が言いました。ですが、私は信じません。
    english: The president said that. However, I don't believe it.
  - japanese: 毎日運動をしました。ですが、痩せていません。
    english: I exercised everyday. However, I haven't lost any weight.
  - japanese: 本当は私がしなくてはならない。だがね、君にしてほしい。
    english: Really, it is I who has to do it. However, I want you to do it.
  - japanese: これが基本ルールだ。だが、例外もある。
    english: This is a basic rule. However, there are also exceptions.
  - japanese: 明日から、旅行に行きます。ですが、まだチケットを買っていません。
    english: I am going on a trip tomorrow. However, I still haven't bought my ticket.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だが・ですが
false_friends:
  - term: が (subject marker)
    meaning: But, However
    kind: synonym
  - term: けど・だけど
    meaning: But, However
    kind: synonym
  - term: ところが
    meaning: Even so, However, Even though, But
    kind: synonym
  - term: けれども
    meaning: But, Although
    kind: synonym
  - term: それでも
    meaning: But still, And yet, Even so, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
