grammar_point: さすが
jlpt: N2
meaning: as one would expect, only natural, that is just like..., even
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: さすが, also often appearing in the kanji form流石, is an adverb that indicates the speaker's feeling
  of being impressed that something has lived up to its reputation, or what was expected of it. In English,
  this comes across as 'as expected of (A)', or 'that is just like (A)'.As流石is an adverb, it may appear
  at the beginning of phrases (either with or without に), or directly preceded a noun when の is used.Caution
  - Although uncommon,さすがmay occasionally have a negative connotation. In these cases, it is similar to
  'even' in English. This use ofさすがimplies that 'as one had though, even (A) couldn't (B)', and similar
  nuances.Fun-fact - The kanji structure of流石is a type of kanji use known as借字in Japanese. This basically
  means 'borrowed symbol', and indicates that the meaning of the kanji is not related to the meaning of
  the word at all.
examples:
  - japanese: すごい！さすが先輩！
    english: Wow! That's what I would expect from you senpai!
  - japanese: 流石に今日は雨が降りすぎだろ...
    english: As one would expect, it is raining way too much today.
  - japanese: さすがの君でもこの問題は難しいだろう。
    english: Even for someone like you, this problem is difficult, isn't it?
  - japanese: さすが田中くん！発注ミスの天才だね！
    english: As expected, Tanaka-kun! You are a genius at making order errors!
  - japanese: 流石に食いすぎたな。椅子から立てない。
    english: As expected, I ate too much. I can't get up from a chair.
  - japanese: 流石に空手の稽古を積んできただけに、15kgのダンベルは持てる。
    english: As might be expected from a person who trains karate, he can lift 15kg dumbbells.
  - japanese: 流石の神戸牛だ。世界一脂の乗った肉だ。
    english: As one would expect from Kobe beef, it has the best marbling in the world.
  - japanese: 一流のオーケストラの演奏は流石ですね。
    english: The performance was as would be expected from a first rate orchestra.
  - japanese: 流石に落し物が多すぎる。注意しないと。
    english: As one would expect, you lose too many things. You need to be careful.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/さすが
false_friends:
  - term: はたして
    meaning: Wonder if ~ (really)?, Wonder how ~ (actually)?, Sure enough, As expected
    kind: synonym
