grammar_point: と同時に
jlpt: N3
meaning: At the same time as, The instant, The moment, As well as
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: To convey that things are happening at the same time in Japanese, と同時に will often be used. This
  is a combination of thecase marking particleと in itslisting particleuse,同時, a noun meaning 'the same
  time', and に, thecase marking particlemarking a location.と同時に translates as 'at the same time as (A)',
  'the instant that (A)', or 'as well as (A)'. In sentences that use this grammar structure, (A) is considered
  to be the primary event, but any (B) or (C) events are not considered any less important.In the case
  of nouns andな-Adjectives,であるis often omitted.While the literal meaning of と同時に is 'at the same time',
  this expression is also regularly used when listing multiple roles or functions that someone/thing has.
  This comes across as 'as well as', but still carries the 'at the same time nuance'.
examples:
  - japanese: サイレンが鳴ったと同時に、犯人は逃げた。
    english: As the siren went off, the criminal ran away.
  - japanese: この機械は便利であると同時に危険である為、気をつけて使用してください。
    english: This machine is useful, but at the same time, it is very dangerous, so please use it with
      caution.
  - japanese: その人は博士であると同時に宇宙飛行士でもある。
    english: That person is a scientist and also an astronaut.
  - japanese: 私の家は自宅と同時にオフィスでもある。
    english: My place is a house, and at the same time it is also my office.
  - japanese: 野菜と同時に肉を鍋に入れてください。
    english: Please throw the vegetables and meat into the pot.
  - japanese: カギと同時に携帯をどこかに忘れてきた。
    english: I lost my keys as well as my phone somewhere.
  - japanese: 演技が終わると同時に、観客から拍手が起こった。
    english: The audience erupted in applause the instant the show was over. (at the same time as)
  - japanese: 演奏が始まると同時に、彼は眠ってしまった。
    english: The moment the performance started, he fell asleep. (at the same time as)
  - japanese: 道を横断し終わると同時に、信号が赤に変わった。
    english: The instant I crossed the street, the traffic light turned red. (at the same time as)
  - japanese: 引っ越すと同時に髪型を変えてみようと思っています。
    english: I am thinking about changing my hairstyle the instant I move. (at the same time as)
  - japanese: 目覚めると同時に着替えて出かけた。
    english: The moment I woke up, I got dressed and went out. (at the same time as)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/と同時に
false_friends:
  - term: なり
    meaning: As soon as, The moment, When
    kind: synonym
  - term: とき
    meaning: When, At the time of
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとたんに
    meaning: The instant or moment, As soon as, Just as
    kind: synonym
  - term: と共に
    meaning: Together with, At the same time,  As well as
    kind: synonym
