grammar_point: に難くない
jlpt: N1
meaning: Not hard to, Not difficult to, Easy to, Is obvious that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: にかたくないis a formal grammar pattern that uses a different version of the い-Adjective難しい 'difficult',難い,
  which has the same meaning. This adjective will be used in the negative, in order to indicate that something
  is 'not difficult'. The case-marking particle に at the beginning is limited to following verbs that
  indicate thinking or conjecture.This structure will only appear with quite a limited number of verbs,
  with想像'to imagine',予想'to predict',察する 'to infer' or 'to sense',理解'to understand', and推測'to guess' making
  up the majority of them.Fun FactMany words have alternative forms that will be described as (A) の改まった表現'the
  reformed version of (A)' in Japanese dictionaries. Although the standard meaning of the る-Verb改まる is
  'to redo', it can also often be 'to reform' in the sense of making something ceremonious or formal.
  (A) will usually be the far more common or everyday version of a word, such as with難しい in the case of
  this grammar point.
examples:
  - japanese: そう言う叱り方は子供にいい影響を与えないだろうことは想像に難くない。
    english: It is not hard to imagine that scolding children like that would not have a positive effect
      on the child.
  - japanese: このプロジェクトを中止したら多くの人に迷惑がかかることは予想に難くない。
    english: It is not hard to guess that canceling this project would end up inconveniencing a lot of
      people.
  - japanese: 子供を亡くした親たちの気持ちは理解に難くない。
    english: It is not difficult to understand the feelings of parents who have lost their children.
  - japanese: ピラミッドが、古代人に畏敬の念を抱かせたであろうことは、想像に難くない。
    english: It is not hard to imagine the awe that the pyramids likely inspired in the ancients.
  - japanese: 飛行機が墜落すれば乗客に何が起こるかは察するに難くない。
    english: It is not hard to guess what happens to passengers when an airplane crashes.
  - japanese: その日の悲惨な出来事が、大いに影響していただろうことは想像に難くない。
    english: It is not hard to imagine that the tragic events of that day likely affected her greatly.
  - japanese: 暴力に満ちているこのゲームが90年代に論争を巻き起こした理由は理解に難くない。
    english: It is not hard to understand the reason why this game that is filled with violence caused
      controversy in the '90s.
  - japanese: バスの運転手がいかに大きな責任を背負っているか、想像に難くない。
    english: It is not hard to imagine how much responsibility a bus driver shoulders.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に難くない
false_friends: []
