grammar_point: 前者は・後者は
jlpt: N3
meaning: The former ~ the latter, The first ~ the second
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Used in almost exactly the same way as 'the former' and 'the latter' in English,前者and後者are two
  nouns that appear frequently in Japanese. Theadverbial particleは will appear after these words, to express
  contrast between the two.前者will be used for 'the former', while後者will represent 'the latter'. Both前者and後者appear
  at the beginning of their own statements, with a specific comment about each being made after は.CautionStatements
  made that use前者and後者require some sort of relationship in what is being compared. Usually, this will
  be obvious within the context of the sentence, but is something that you will need to be careful of
  when making your own sentences.
examples:
  - japanese: どの大学に行くか迷っています。前者は家に近いが学費が高い、後者は家から遠いが学費が半分ぐらい安い。
    english: I am undecided on which college to go to. The former is close to my house, but the tuition
      is expensive. The latter is far from my house but the tuition is almost half the price.
  - japanese: 地下鉄と新幹線、前者は地下をゆっくりとはしり、後者は速いスピードで地上を走る。
    english: Subways and bullet trains. The former runs slowly underground, and the latter runs above
      ground at a high speed.
  - japanese: こっちの車とこっちの車どっちを買おう。前者は安くて古くて、後者は高くて新しい。 (Natural)
    english: This car and this car, which should I buy? The former is cheap and old, and the latter is
      expensive and new.
  - japanese: 明日動物園に行くか今夜本を読むかで、迷っています。前者は動物がいて空いている、後者は寝る前にゆっくりできる。 (Unnatural)
    english: I am undecided on whether to go to the zoo tomorrow, or to read a book tonight. The former
      has animals and isn't crowded, but the latter is relaxing before bed.
  - japanese: A社とB社、どちらに就職するか迷っています。前者は給料がよく、後者は環境がいいのです。
    english: I am having trouble deciding between company A and company B. The former's pay is good and
      the latter has a good working environment.
  - japanese: 宿泊場所の候補が二つあります。前者は温泉があり、後者はご飯がおいしいです。
    english: There are two choices for places to stay. The first has hot springs, the second has delicious
      food.
  - japanese: 交通の札には切符と整理券の２つがあります。前者は電車に乗るために必要なもので、後者はバスに乗るときに取るものです。
    english: 'There are two types of transportation tickets: ''kippu'' and ''seiriken''. The former is
      a thing needed for getting on a train, and the latter is taken when boarding on a bus.'
  - japanese: どちらのパソコンがいいですか？前者は安いが性能は一般向け、後者は高いが高性能。
    english: Which laptop is better? The former is cheap, but the specifications are average. The latter
      is expensive, but has better performance.
  - japanese: どちらの家にするか迷っています。前者は駅から近いが家賃が高い、後者は駅から遠いが家賃も安く部屋も広い。
    english: I can't decide which house to rent. The former is close to the nearest station, but expensive.
      The latter is far from the station, but cheap and spacious.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/前者は-後者は
false_friends:
  - term: あとで
    meaning: After, Later
    kind: synonym
  - term: まえに
    meaning: Before, In front of
    kind: synonym
