grammar_point: ごろ
jlpt: N4
meaning: Around, About
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ころ, orごろ(the colloquial pronunciation) is a word which carries the meaning of 'around', or 'about'.
  It is utilized in a similar way toくらい, but has a few differences. Whenごろis used, it will need to be
  attached to the end of a noun, or a noun followed byの.The main difference betweenころandくらいis thatころcan
  be (and often is) used to express a broad point in time, whileくらいis limited to expressing timeframes
  that are more specific.Conversely,ころwill not be used when expressing approximate distances/lengths.The
  primary reason for this is thatころexpresses a span of something, whileくらいexpresses an extent. In this
  way,ころcould also be translated as 'within the span of (A)', whileくらいis closer to 'at the point of (A)'.
  As an easier way to think about it, if we have a one meter ruler,ころcould express anywhere between 1
  to 100 centimeters (the span), butくらいcan only express somewhere between 90 and 100 centimeters (the
  extent).Just like with English, if the 'time' expressed is very specific, then eitherくらいorころcould be
  used naturally. This is due to the 'span', and the 'extent' already being something that is a 'precise
  point' in these cases.CautionThe kanji form of頃is also very common, so it is worth learning as soon
  as possible, to save any confusion while reading.
examples:
  - japanese: 11時頃に帰ってくる。
    english: I will be home around 11.
  - japanese: 私は大学生の頃に富士山を登りました。
    english: I climbed Mount Fuji around when I was a college student.
  - japanese: 子供のくらいはよく親と動物園へ行きました。
    english: When I was approximately a child, I often went to the zoo with my parents. (Unnatural Japanese,
      as being a child is a broad time frame)
  - japanese: 子供のころはよく親と動物園へ行きました。
    english: Around when I was a child, I often went to the zoo with my parents. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 2メートルくらいの所に印をつけてください。
    english: Please make a mark around the 2 meter point. (Natural Japanese, as an approximation is being
      discussed)
  - japanese: 2メートルごろの所に印をつけてください。
    english: Please make a mark within the span of 2 meters. (Unnatural Japanese, as the listener would
      think that marking a line anywhere within the two meter space is fine)
  - japanese: 今日は12時くらいに帰る。
    english: I will be home around 12.
  - japanese: 今日は12時頃に帰る。
    english: I will be home around 12.
  - japanese: ８時頃に帰りました。
    english: I went home around eight o'clock.
  - japanese: 東京に行った友達は今頃着いているでしょう。
    english: My friend who went to Tokyo is probably arriving around now...
  - japanese: 月曜日の夜頃に、雨が降ります。
    english: It will rain around Monday night.
  - japanese: 何時頃帰って来る？
    english: Around what time will you come home?
  - japanese: 11時頃に帰って来るから、ご飯はいらないです。
    english: I will get home about 11, so I don't need dinner.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ごろ
false_friends:
  - term: くらい ①
    meaning: About, Approximately
    kind: synonym
  - term: とき
    meaning: When, At the time of
    kind: synonym
