grammar_point: もさることながら
jlpt: N1
meaning: It is a fact that ~, There is no doubt that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: もさることながらis a construction in Japanese that is often translated as 'it goes without saying that
  (A), but (B)', or 'not only (A), but (B) too'. This expression is a combination of theadverbial particleも,
  thepre-noun adjectivalさる 'particular', or 'certain', thenoun事'thing', and theconjunction particleながら
  'while'. Due to this, the more literal translation is simply 'while (A) is also of particular merit,
  (B)'. This literal translation will be helpful to remember, asもさることながらwill always present (A) as important,
  but (B) as even more important than that.もさることながらwill be attached to the end ofnounsandnounphrases.As
  (B) is being emphasized in sentences that use this grammar structure, it is common to see other expressions
  of emphasis combined withもさることながら. Some examples include さらに 'additionally', なにより 'more than anything',
  and以上'above that'.
examples:
  - japanese: あのブランドが出す商品もさることながら、マーケティングも素晴らしい。
    english: It is a fact that the products that the brand produces are amazing, but also how they market
      them.
  - japanese: このパソコンは機能もさることながら、デザインもいい。
    english: It is a fact that the features of this computer are good, but so is the design.
  - japanese: 日本語を勉強するにおいて漢字もさることながら、文法も勉強しなくてはいけない。
    english: When it comes to studying Japanese, it is a fact that you need to study not only kanji, but
      also grammar too.
  - japanese: 経営会議：社長「競争が激しいからマーケティング予算を上げよう。」部長「マーケティングもさることながら製品品質も重要なのではないでしょうか？」
    english: 'Management meeting, company president: ''The competition is intense, so we will increase
      the marketing budget.''Head director: ''It is a fact that marketing is important, but isn''t the
      product quality too?'''
  - japanese: 小説：「だが、この国の強さは、自国の単独力量もさることながら、同盟国の多さにある。」
    english: 'Novel: ''However, it is a fact that the strength of this country lies in its power, but
      it also has numerous allies.'''
  - japanese: 入学試験を受けることは、当人の苦痛もさることながら、家族にも、大きな心理的負担を与えます。
    english: It is a fact that taking an entrance exam is stressful for the person concerned, but it also
      places a psychological burden on the family.
  - japanese: 日本語を勉強するとき、熱心さもさることながら、長い目で見て一貫性も重要な要素である。
    english: When learning Japanese, it is a fact that enthusiasm is an important factor, but in the long
      term - consistency too.
  - japanese: 伝記：「選手としての彼の素晴らしい才能もさることながら、何より信望や指導力が成功の要因となった。」
    english: 'Biography: ''It is a fact that he has great ability as a player, but more than anything,
      his popularity and leadership skills were the cause of his success.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/もさることながら
false_friends:
  - term: ～というのは事実だ
    meaning: It is a fact that ~, There is no doubt that
    kind: synonym
