grammar_point: ている③
jlpt: N5
meaning: Has/have done, Is ~ing (Repetition)
meaning_warning: ている is often shortened to てる. This applies to all tenses, including てる, てて, てた, and even
  てます
details:
  Part of Speech: Verb
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 接続助詞
  単語の種類: 動詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: The 3rd most common meaning (in no specific order) that ている is used for in Japanese, is the repetition
  of common activities. This is for things that are not 'continuing', but happen so often that they are
  considered to be continuous (like going to work, having a hobby, and similar things).Due to いる being
  one of the verbs for 'existing' in Japanese, the ている form is closer to 'continuing to exist in a specific
  state', rather than (A)~ing in English. In this construction, it can be thought of as 'to be existing
  in the state of performing a regular activity'.CautionWith this meaning of ている , to make it easier to
  understand, expressions of time are often used. This can be things like 毎日 , 毎晩 , 毎週 , and similar phrases.Fun
  FactRegularly in novels, manga, and specifically some parts of Japan, とる may be used instead of ている
  with the same meaning.
examples:
  - japanese: 俺、毎日勉強しとる。
    english: I study every day.
  - japanese: 俺は毎週金曜日の夜にスーパーに行っているのだ。
    english: I go to the supermarket every Friday night. (I am going...)
  - japanese: ふうたろうさんは毎日みくさんと一緒に歴史を勉強している。
    english: Fuutarou-san studies history every day with Miku. (Fuutarou-san is studying...)
  - japanese: 魔王さまはバーガークイーンで働いています。
    english: The Demon Lord works at Burger Queen. (The Demon Lord is working...)
  - japanese: この公園では毎週末多くの人が走っています。
    english: Many people run in this park every weekend. (Many people are running...)
  - japanese: どうしてスティーブンはいつも黒いタートルネックを着ているのですか。
    english: Why does Steven always wear a black turtleneck? (is wearing)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ている3
false_friends:
  - term: ている①
    meaning: Is, Am, Are (~ing)
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb + て
    meaning: And, Then (Linking events)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ている②
    meaning: State of being, Has (have) done
    kind: synonym
