grammar_point: 後(の) Noun
jlpt: N2
meaning: …left, Rest, Remaining, In, …to, …else
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: One of the common uses for thenoun後'behind' is to express a remainder, or everything after a
  certain point. This can be translated as 'what's left of (A)', 'the rest of (A)', 'what's remaining
  of (A)', or even 'other than (A)'. Let's have a look at a few examples.後will be grouped with thecase
  marking particleの before nouns, come directly before numbers, or be used at the beginning of whole phrases.Despite
  having many different translations, the base meaning of後will always just be to identify a sequence of
  things, and what comes 'after' or 'behind' a specific point in that sequence.
examples:
  - japanese: 今あなたが持っている段ボール箱はキッチンまで運んでおいてください。後の段ボール箱は全部寝室までお願いします。
    english: Please bring the cardboard box you are carrying into the kitchen. Please take all the rest
      to the master bedroom.
  - japanese: 後ちょっとで着くからもうちょっと我慢して。
    english: We will arrive in a little bit, so please be patient for a little longer.
  - japanese: 映画公開まで後3日！
    english: Three days left until the movie gets released!
  - japanese: 子供がお隣さんと話している：「うちでは７匹動物を飼ってるんです。猫が５匹、後の２匹は犬です。」
    english: 'A child is talking with a neighbor: ''We have 7 animals at home. 5 are cats and the remaining
      ones are dogs.'''
  - japanese: 学生１：「明日は試験なのに、どうして一日中ゲームなんてしてたの！？」学生２：「うそっ！？試験まで後一日しかないなんて聞いてないよ！」
    english: 'Student1: ''Why did you play games all day long even though there is an exam tomorrow?''Student2:
      ''No way! I didn''t hear anything about having only one day left until the exam!'' (remaining)'
  - japanese: SF映画：「ヨーロッパを除いて、後の世界は全てあなた方のものだ。」
    english: 'Sci-fi Movie: ''Except for Europa, the remaining worlds belong to you.'''
  - japanese: 砂漠で独り言を言う：「ガソリンが後7リットルしかない。足りるかな？」
    english: 'Talking to oneself in the desert: ''There are only 7 liters of gasoline left. I wonder if
      it is enough?'' (remaining)'
  - japanese: 妻は夫と話している：「後少ししか砂糖がないから、コンビニに買いに行ってくれない？」
    english: 'A wife talking with her husband: ''Since there is only a little sugar left, won''t you go
      to the convenience store and buy some?'' (remaining)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/後-のnoun
false_friends: []
