grammar_point: てあげる
jlpt: N4
meaning: To do something for someone, As a favor for
meaning_warning: Might sound patronizing and can be rude especially if used with elderly people!
details:
  Register: Polite
  使用域: 敬語
writeup: When joining theconjunction particleて, with theる-Verbあげる(to give), it implies that someone is
  doing something for the benefit of someone else. Literally, this expression means 'to give/bestow the
  action of (A) upon (B)', but translates more naturally as 'to do (A) for (B)', or 'to do (A) as a favor
  for (B)'.The receiver of theてあげるaction will be marked withに, while the doer will be marked withが(if
  mentioned).CautionUnfortunately,てあげるcan sound quite patronizing in modern Japanese, and should be avoided
  in situations where someone may take offence to having something done for them (for example, doing something
  for someone of higher status). This is primarily due toやる(a casual variation of 'to give') being phased
  out.Fun FactOriginally,やるwas used when referring to giving water to plants, or feeding animals. However,
  some people started usingあげるfor these purposes as well, believing that it sounded 'nicer'. Historically,
  this actually achieved the opposite result, and some people began to think thatあげるwas insulting, as
  it was being used for plants/animals.These days,てやるis almost never used, unless you have a very close
  relationship with someone and are using it jokingly.
examples:
  - japanese: 父が妹にお菓子を買ってあげる。
    english: My father buys snacks for my sister.
  - japanese: いいよ、俺がやってあげるよ。
    english: It's okay, I'll do it for you.
  - japanese: 明日は私が送ってあげるよ。
    english: Tomorrow, (as a favor) I will send you off.
  - japanese: 部長、今夜は俺がおごってあげるよ。
    english: Boss, I'll pay for the food tonight (as a favor). (Natural Japanese, but may be considered
      rude by the boss)
  - japanese: 犬に餌をやる。
    english: To feed the dog. (To give food to the dog because they need it to live)
  - japanese: 犬に餌をあげる。
    english: To feed the dog. (To give food to the dog because you want it to have the best life)
  - japanese: お前が食いたいものは何でも作ってやるよ。
    english: I will make anything you want to eat for you.
  - japanese: 母に花を買ってあげた。
    english: I bought flowers (as a favor) for my mother.
  - japanese: あそこのおばあさんを手伝ってあげましょうか。
    english: Shall we give assistance to (as a favor for) that lady?
  - japanese: 今暇だから、晩ご飯を作ってあげるよ。
    english: Since I'm not busy now, I will make dinner (as a favor) for you.
  - japanese: このプレゼントをお父さんに渡してあげてください。
    english: Please hand over this present to your dad. (Give to)
  - japanese: エレンさんがミカサさんに美しい花を持ってきてあげた。
    english: Eren brought beautiful flowers (as a favor) for Mikasa.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てあげる
false_friends:
  - term: てくれる
    meaning: To do something for someone (usually you)
    kind: synonym
  - term: てもらう
    meaning: To get someone to do, To have someone do
    kind: synonym
  - term: あげる
    meaning: To give (away), To present, To provide
    kind: synonym
