grammar_point: さ
jlpt: N4
meaning: Converting adjectives to nouns
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: さis asuffixin Japanese that can be attached to the stem form ofい-Adjectivesandな-Adjectives. When
  this happens, it transforms the target adjective into a noun that illustrates the 'amount' of that particular
  adjective. This commonly translates as '-ness' in English (sweetness, tallness, spiciness, etc), but
  is referred to asdegreein Japanese.Fun FactIt is thought that thissuffixoriginally stemmed from the
  kanji差(meaning 'distinction'), and was used for highlighting things that were distinctive features of
  something. In this way,さis also sometimes used after the dictionary form of verbs, to highlight a distinct
  point in time that something happens.However, this use of thesuffixis far less common in modern Japanese,
  and is known as 'poetic language'. It was primarily used during Japan's 'middle ages', which spanned
  from (around) 1100, until close to the end of the 1500's.
examples:
  - japanese: 私が道の長さを測ります。
    english: I will measure the length of the road. (The road's lengthiness)
  - japanese: 大人になってから家族の大切さが分かってきた。
    english: After becoming an adult, I came to understand the importance of family. (Family's importantness)
  - japanese: 学校からの帰るさにお金を拾った。
    english: On the way back from school, I picked up some money. (At the 'point' of returning home)
  - japanese: 行くさで家に忘れ物をしたことを思い出した。
    english: When I was on my way there, I remembered that I had left something at home. (At the 'point'
      of going somewhere)
  - japanese: この美しさは初めてです。
    english: This beauty is a first for me.
  - japanese: 彼の元気さは子供みたい。
    english: His energy is like that of a child.
  - japanese: この甘さは美味しい。
    english: This sweetness is delicious.
  - japanese: この景色の綺麗さは言葉では説明できない。
    english: I am unable to explain the prettiness of this scenery with words.
  - japanese: 箱の重さを測ってください。
    english: Please weigh the heaviness of the box for me?
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/さ
false_friends:
  - term: み
    meaning: ~ness, Used to indicate conditions or nature
    kind: synonym
