grammar_point: ぞ
jlpt: N0
meaning: Strong emphasis (toward anyone), !
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Get more example sentences!: Premium users get access to 12 example sentences on all Grammar Points.
writeup: ぞ is a sentence-ending particle that is used for emphasis in a similar way to よ. However, it
  is quite a bit stronger and primarily only used by men. While よ may simply state a point or a fact,
  ぞ is usually reserved for more forcefully highlighting something. In many cases, it will just be translated
  as an exclamation point.ぞ may be used at the end of any sentence, but can only follow conjugatable words
  such as verbs, adjectives, and auxiliary verbs.The speaker frequently uses ぞ simply to encourage or
  convince themselves, rather than specifically directing the statement at another.CautionAlthough uncommon,
  ぞ may also be used as an adverbial particle in the same way as は. In sentences like this, it is more
  emphatic and draws extra attention to the topic itself.Additionally, this use of ぞ as an adverbial particle
  may also follow question words such as どこ ‘where’, 誰 ‘who’, なに ‘what’, etc.This use is also emphatic,
  but not quite to the same extent as with standard nouns.
examples:
  - japanese: これぞ日本車だ。
    english: Now, this is a Japanese car.
  - japanese: 着物ぞ日本の文化だ。
    english: Kimonos are Japanese culture!
  - japanese: 誰ぞ手を貸せ！
    english: Someone, give me a hand!
  - japanese: こんな夜遅くまで、どこぞで何をしていた？
    english: Where were you and what were you doing out this late at night?
  - japanese: 鍵をなくした…。これは弱ったぞ。
    english: I lost the key… Now this is troublesome!
  - japanese: やった〜！実験が上手くいったぞ！
    english: Yahoo! The experiment went well!
  - japanese: スケジュールより遅れている。急ぐぞ！
    english: I am running behind schedule. I will hurry up!
  - japanese: 走るのが遅いぞ！もっと速く走りなさい！
    english: Your running is slow! Run faster!
  - japanese: ヒーロー：「あの怪物に好き勝手はさせないぞ！」
    english: 'Hero: ''I will not let that monster freely do whatever it wants!'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ぞ
false_friends: []
