grammar_point: をものともせず
jlpt: N1
meaning: Making nothing of, Ignoring, In defiance of, Regardless of, Disregarding
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: をものともせずis a combination of theadverbial particleを, thenoun物'thing', the particle とも 'even as',
  and the negative form of する paired withclassical auxiliary verbず, せず. The common translations of 'to
  make nothing of (A)', or 'in defiance of (A)' are quite close to the more literal translation of 'without
  making (A) a thing'.As を must follow a noun, this expression may only be used after nouns, or nominated
  phrases.をものともせずwill often follow negative words which are being praised as something that a person was
  not affected by 'did not make a think of' in their response to it.Cautionをものともせずwill not be used when
  talking about one's own actions.
examples:
  - japanese: 谷口選手は足が震えているのをものともせず、レースを完走した。
    english: Taniguchi completed the race, regardless of his shaky legs.
  - japanese: 彼らは外が暑いのをものともせず、一日中街頭募金活動をした。
    english: Regardless of it being hot outside, they spent all day on the streets fundraising.
  - japanese: 彼女は危険なのをものともせずに、子供たちを助けに行った。
    english: She went to help the children, ignoring the danger.
  - japanese: 彼は手首の怪我をものともせずに試合で優勝した。
    english: He won the match despite his wrist injury.
  - japanese: 私は嵐をものともせず海にドライブに行った。
    english: Ignoring the storm, I went for a drive to the beach. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 勇敢なボランティアたちは零下30度の気温をものともせず、行方不明の子犬を探し続けた。
    english: In defiance of the -30°C temperatures, the brave volunteers continued searching for the lost
      puppy.
  - japanese: 厳しい経済状況をものともせず、アンブレラ社の株は急騰した。
    english: Regardless of the tough economic situation, Umbrella Corporation stocks shot up.
  - japanese: 清瀬灰二選手は肺がはげしくあえぐのをものともせずに、最後まで頑張って勝利した。
    english: Haiji Kiyose, ignoring his lungs desperately gasping for air, pressed on and managed to be
      victorious.
  - japanese: 彼女は政敵からの揶揄をものともせず選挙を戦い抜き、大統領の座を勝ち取った。
    english: Disregarding the mockery from her political opponents, she fought to the bitter end and won
      the presidential seat.
  - japanese: 上司の反対をものともせず提案を押し通した。
    english: Making nothing of the objection of their superiors, they insisted on the proposal.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/をものともせず
false_friends: []
