grammar_point: だって
jlpt: N3
meaning: I heard/was said, Because, But, Even or also, Even if or even though
meaning_warning: Used in casual language; has a childish/naive nuance
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: だってis a colloquial combination of theauxiliary verbだ, and theadverbial particleとて in Japanese
  (a combination of the particles と, and て). It has a wide range of uses, but primarily exclaims that
  something is the 'premise' for whatever has been said, or will be said next. This 'exclamation' is usually
  translated as 'I heard', 'cause', 'but', or 'even if'. The meaning that will be conveyed is determined
  primarily by whereだってappears in a sentence.When placed at the beginning of a sentence,だってhighlights
  the speaker's (usually) displeasure about something that has just been said, before following it with
  an explanation or counterpoint. Thisだってis quite similar toでも.At the end of a sentence,だってis used to
  express hearsay, in a similar way to 'I heard that', or 'it was said that', in English. In these cases
  it will be preceded by なん. なんだって always appears after a noun, or a phrase that has been nominalized
  (with の or こと).CautionWhen used directly after a noun, だって has a similar nuance to the だって that appears
  at the beginning of sentences (emphasizing what has come before it, in order to explain further). This
  comes across asでも, and may not be used with なん.Fun FactTheadverbial particleとて itself is an abbreviation
  of expressions like と言って, and と思って. だとて (the full construction) may also be used, but is almost always
  replaced by だって, as it is far easier to say.Fun FactWhen used at the beginning of a sentence, もん or
  もの will often come at the end of that sentence, in order to strengthen the opinion given by the speaker.
  This is more commonly used by women and children.
examples:
  - japanese: え〜行きたくないよ。だって、俺の元カノも誘ったんでしょう？
    english: Awwww maaaan I don't want to go. It's because you also invited my ex-girlfriend, right?
  - japanese: だって、サメとか怖いもん。
    english: It's because I'm afraid of things like sharks.
  - japanese: レムの実家は農家なんだって。
    english: I heard that Rems' family owns a farm.
  - japanese: キリコは明日から一週間休みなんだって。
    english: I hear that Kiriko will be on break for a week starting tomorrow.
  - japanese: 俺だって行きたくないよ。
    english: Even I don't want to go.
  - japanese: そんなこと言ったら、誰だって傷つくよ。
    english: If you say something like that, anyone would get hurt.
  - japanese: 私もそんなもの食べたくないよ。だって、不味いもん。
    english: I also don't want to eat something like that. It's because it tastes bad.
  - japanese: 今日は家から出ません。だって、今日は暑いもの。
    english: I am not going to leave my house today. Cause it is hot today.
  - japanese: 全員合格だってよ。
    english: It is said that everyone had passed the exam.
  - japanese: だって、全然知らないんだもん。
    english: Because, I have no idea.
  - japanese: 今から体育なんだって。
    english: I heard that we have P.E. from now.
  - japanese: アイスクリームだって薬になる。食べ過ぎなければ。
    english: Even ice cream, it can do you good. That is, if you don't eat too much.
  - japanese: めがねちゃん：「どうして 遅れたの？」 ヤンキーくん：「だって、 家の手伝いをしなきゃいけなかったんだ。」
    english: 'Megane-chan: ''Why are you late?'' Yankee-kun: ''Because I had to help with house work.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だって
false_friends:
  - term: ということだ
    meaning: I heard that, Rumor has it that, It is said that, It means that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ときいた
    meaning: I heard that
    kind: synonym
  - term: んだって
    meaning: I heard that, He or She said that
    kind: synonym
  - term: それでも
    meaning: But still, And yet, Even so, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: なぜなら〜から
    meaning: Because, The reason is, That is because
    kind: synonym
  - term: たって
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter how
    kind: synonym
