grammar_point: てしまう・ちゃう
jlpt: N4
meaning: To do something by accident, To finish completely・totally, Unfortunately
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: By combining theconjunction particleて, with the verbしまう(sometimes written as終う), you are able
  to express that something was done 'by accident', 'completely', or 'unfortunately'. These meanings may
  seem quite different, but we will discuss their similarities in a moment. Let's look at a few examples
  ofてしまうfirst.As we can see, verbs that usually takeでinstead ofてwill be no different when usingてしまう.Sometimes,てしまうorでしまうwill
  be shortened to a more casual form, which are often used in speech. These forms are as follows:てしまうwill
  becomeちゃうでしまうwill becomeじゃうFun FactWhileて終うis most frequently written in hiragana,て仕舞うmay also be seen.
  There is a slight nuance difference between these two kanji structures, but the primary meaning ofしまうwill
  always be that 'something has come to the point where ending/ending up in a specific state cannot be
  avoided'. This 'no turning back point' may be temporary (likely to be written as仕舞う), or it may be permanent
  (likely to be written as終う).Due to this 'cannot be avoided' nuance,しまうoften comes across as 'totally',
  as in 'ah… I totally left the chicken in the oven for too long'. In these cases, it is simply expressing
  the speaker's exasperation that something is 'too late' to change. However, despite regularly being
  used negatively,てしまうcan also be used positively. In these cases it still has the nuance of 'no turning
  back'.
examples:
  - japanese: 私はすぐに道に迷ってしまう。
    english: Unfortunately, I easily get lost.
  - japanese: 家にお菓子がいっぱいあると全部食べてしまうのでお菓子を買わないようにしている。
    english: When there are a lot of snacks in my house, I completely eat them all, so I try not to buy
      them.
  - japanese: メニューにアイスクリームがあると頼んでしまう。
    english: When there is ice-cream on the menu, I unfortunately order it.
  - japanese: 私はよく舌を噛んでしまう。
    english: I accidentally bite my tongue often.
  - japanese: 最近運動をしてないから太っちゃう。
    english: Recently, I haven't been exercising, so I'm totally going to get fat.
  - japanese: 花が死んじゃうから、花を踏むな。
    english: Since the flowers will unfortunately die, don't step on them.
  - japanese: ゲームを始める前に宿題を終わらせてしまおう！
    english: Let's completely finish my homework before I start playing video games! (I'm going to completely
      finish my homework before I start playing video games)
  - japanese: 青木先輩、定時までに社長に頼まれたレポートを完成させてしまいましょうよ。
    english: Aoki senpai, let's completely finish the report that our boss has asked us to do before work
      is over.
  - japanese: 傘を忘れてしまった。
    english: I unfortunately forgot my umbrella. (I totally forgot my umbrella)
  - japanese: 友達は私のケーキを食べてしまった。
    english: My friend finished off my cake. (eaten completely)・(totally)
  - japanese: お皿が割れてしまった。
    english: (Someone) accidentally broke a plate. (unfortunately・totally)
  - japanese: 今出ないと遅れてしまうよ。
    english: If you don't leave now, you will unfortunately be late. (totally)
  - japanese: ごめん！卵を全部使ってしまった。
    english: Sorry! I completely used all the eggs. (Sorry! I totally used all the eggs)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てしまう-ちゃう
false_friends:
  - term: はじめる
    meaning: To start, To begin to
    kind: antonym
  - term: 切れない
    meaning: Being unable to finish or complete
    kind: antonym
  - term: おわる
    meaning: To finish, To end
    kind: synonym
  - term: 切る
    meaning: To do something completely to the end, Utterly, Resolutely
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上がる・上げる
    meaning: Something is finished, To finish something, Something has come to an end, To do something
      completely, To do something through
    kind: synonym
  - term: つい
    meaning: Accidentally, Unconsciously, Against one's better judgement
    kind: synonym
