grammar_point: ～ばこそ
jlpt: N1
meaning: Precisely because, Only because, Because, Due to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: ばこそwill be used in a similar way to からこそ, indicating that (A) is the the precise reason for (B).
  It will be translated as 'precisely because of (A)', or 'it is only due to (A) that (B)'. This pattern
  is a combination of theconjunction particleば, and theadverbial particleこそ, which is being used in a
  similar way to asentence ending particlein this case.ばこそmay follow almost any word type that has been
  adjusted into itshypothetical form. However, it will appear as であればこそ when used after nouns or な-Adjectives.In
  many cases, (A) will be a reason that is difficult to conceive of as what would lead to (B) under normal
  circumstances, and therefore requires the speaker to emphasize it with こそ.Cautionばこそis very formal,
  and a bit old-fashioned, so からこそ will almost always be the preferred choice in modern day Japanese.
examples:
  - japanese: 娘の将来を思えばこそ、塾に通わせます。
    english: Precisely because I am thinking about my daughter's future, I will make her attend cram school.
  - japanese: 忙しければこそ時間を効率的に使うことができるようになる。
    english: Precisely because you are busy, you will be able to use your time more efficiently.
  - japanese: 健康であればこそ、年をとっても楽しい人生を過ごせる。
    english: You will be able to enjoy life even if you grow old, precisely because of good health.
  - japanese: 小さな会社であればこそ、優秀な人材が必要だ。
    english: Precisely because it is a small company, we need the best workers.
  - japanese: 社長「皆さんがチームの一員として協力すればこそ成功できるのです。」
    english: 'Company president: ''Precisely because we work together as members of the team, we can succeed.
      '''
  - japanese: 両親が子どもを叱るのは子どもの幸福を考えればこそだ。
    english: It is precisely because parents think of the well-being of their children that they scold
      them.
  - japanese: 悲しみがあればこそ、喜びもある。
    english: Precisely because there is sadness, there is also happiness.
  - japanese: 日本語の勉強は難しければこそ、却ってやりがいを感じるのです。
    english: Precisely because studying Japanese is hard, it feels all the more rewarding.
  - japanese: 人間の寿命は限られている。であればこそ、人間はその命をできるだけ楽しく快適で充実して過ごそうと思う。
    english: Human lifespan is limited. Precisely because of that, I plan to make life as enjoyable, comfortable,
      and fulfilling as possible.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ばこそ
false_friends:
  - term: ～てこそ
    meaning: Only if, Because, By, Unless, Until
    kind: synonym
  - term: からこそ
    meaning: Emphasized because, Precisely because
    kind: synonym
