grammar_point: かのようだ
jlpt: N2
meaning: As if, Just like
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: かのようだis a set phrase in Japanese indicating that something 'appears to be (A)', but the speaker
  is not certain. It will be translated as 'as if (A)', or 'just like (A)'. This is a combination of theadverbial
  particleか, の and theauxiliary verb様だ 'appearing to be'. The more literal meaning can be thought of as
  'is it not like (A)?', due to the uncertainty expressed by か.かのようだmay follow verbs and い-Adjectives,
  or な-Adjectives and nouns followed by である.When ようだ is altering the meaning of a verb or a noun later
  in the sentence, ように or ような may also be used.This grammar construction will often be seen with expressions
  that emphasize the speaker's assumption about (A), such as まるで. If compared to English, this merely
  strengthens the sentence in a similar way to the difference between 'it's as if (A)', and 'it's just
  as if (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: このVRフライトゲームはものすごくリアルだ。まるで本物の飛行機を操縦しているかのようだ。
    english: This VR flight game is so realistic. It is just as if I am flying an actual airplane.
  - japanese: なんだこの静けさは。この町には誰もいないかのようだ。
    english: What is this quietness? What is this quietness? It is as if there is no one in this town.
  - japanese: 彼はまるで私と話すのが面倒であるかのようだ。
    english: He talks to me as if it was a chore.
  - japanese: 彼と僕は兄弟であるかのようだが、実は彼は僕のパートナーです。
    english: It is as if he and I are brothers, but actually he is my partner.
  - japanese: 長谷川くんのお母さんは私を自分の子供であるかのように小さい頃から可愛がってくれていた。
    english: Hasegawa-kun's mother has taken care of me just as if I was her own child.
  - japanese: このスーパーに入ると、まるで母国に帰ってきたかのような感じがする。
    english: When I enter this supermarket, I feel as if I am back in my home country.
  - japanese: その日、隣の家の子供とすこし話した。10才の子供でも喋り方はまるでもう大人であるかのようだった。
    english: On that day I spoke to the neighbor's child a bit. Despite being a ten year old, they spoke
      as if they were an adult.
  - japanese: その歌手の振る舞いは名高い歌手であるかのようだが、実はキャリアを始めたばかりだ。
    english: That singer's behavior is as if she is famous, but in reality, she has just begun her career.
  - japanese: うちの犬は生きていたとき私をときどきじろじろ見たもので、あたかも何か言いたいかのようだった。
    english: My dog used to stare at me from time to time when it was still around just like it was trying
      to tell me something.
  - japanese: 彼はまるでお腹に風船を入れているかのようだ。
    english: It is just as if he has a balloon in his belly.
  - japanese: 初めてなのに、分量が分かっているかのように料理を作っている。
    english: Even though it's their first time, they are making food as if they understand how much of
      each item they need.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かのようだ
false_friends:
  - term: まるで…ようだ
    meaning: It is entirely as if, It is just as though
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように・ような
    meaning: As・like, Just like
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようだ
    meaning: It seems that, It appears that, It looks like
    kind: synonym
  - term: ふうに
    meaning: ~ way, In a way that suggests, Like ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: という風に
    meaning: As if to say, As if to suggest that, In such a way that, Things like
    kind: synonym
