grammar_point: は
jlpt: N5
meaning: As for... (Highlights sentence topic)
meaning_warning: は can be also used to contrast several things
details:
  Part of Speech: Linking Particle
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 助詞
  単語の種類: 係助詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: は (pronounced わ) is often considered to be one of the most difficult particles to master in Japanese,
  alongside が . は marks the topic of the sentence, and describes the whole sentence broadly. However,
  が primarily marks single actions or statements. We will explore this distinction in more detail when
  covering が .In many sentences (especially short ones), either は or が would be considered perfectly natural.
  This depends on whether someone is simply stating something ( は ), or highlighting it especially ( が
  ).In the first sentence, は broadly describes what the sentence is about (curry). In the second sentence,
  は again describes the whole sentence being about 'me', but が highlights one specific piece of information
  (wine being the thing that is hated).Cautionは cannot be used to describe things that you are seeing
  or experiencing 'in the moment' (right now). This is due to 'in the moment' events being considered
  part of a larger experience (your whole day for example).Cautionは has 2 main functions. The first marks
  the topic of the sentence, the second is used for contrast or making comparisons. Although there are
  no 'strict' rules for this, when は is used toward (or after) the middle of a sentence, it will usually
  have the nuance of contrast.In the second sentence, は will give the listener the impression that there
  is a comparison being made.
examples:
  - japanese: 今はテスト。
    english: I have a test now. (Slightly unnatural, as the test is happening 'right now')
  - japanese: 今日は、雨。
    english: It will rain today. (Natural, as rain is a fairly broad event)
  - japanese: 私は、金曜日が好き。
    english: I like Fridays. (Focus is on Friday)
  - japanese: 私は、金曜日は好き。
    english: I like Fridays. (Focus is on the comparison to other days)
  - japanese: 私はトムです。
    english: I (as the topic of this sentence) am Tom.
  - japanese: あなたはジムです。
    english: You (as the topic of this sentence) are Jim.
  - japanese: トムは先生です。
    english: Tom (as the topic of this sentence) is a teacher.
  - japanese: カレンダーは必要です。
    english: A calendar (as the topic of this sentence) is necessary.
  - japanese: 私は忙しいです。
    english: I (as the topic of this sentence) am busy.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/は
false_friends:
  - term: が (subject marker)
    meaning: Subject marking particle, Identification particle
    kind: synonym
  - term: の (possession)
    meaning: Verb nominalizer, The one who..., That which...
    kind: synonym
  - term: Number/Amount + は
    meaning: At least, Sort of, Or so
    kind: synonym
  - term: って (quotation)
    meaning: As for, Speaking of, Casual は (Sentence topic marker)
    kind: synonym
  - term: といえば
    meaning: Speaking of, If it were the case that
    kind: synonym
