grammar_point: でも
jlpt: N4
meaning: Or something,  Any... (with question words), No matter (who)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: でも is one of many adverbial particles in Japanese. These are particles that behave like a regular
  助詞 (in that they appear after the words that they are referencing), but their role is a little bit more
  specific. でも itself has several uses, and the use that we will examine in this grammar point is called
  例示 . Basically this means 'presenting examples'.In English, this results in a translation similar to
  'even', or 'or something'. To use this structure, simply attach でも to the end of any noun , or pronoun
  .When grouped with a standard noun as above, でも is just showing that the noun is an example/suggestion,
  and that there are other choices/possibilities available. However, when the noun is a word like 誰 ,
  どこ , 何 , or いつ, the translation becomes much closer to English words like 'anyone', 'anywhere', 'anything',
  or 'anytime'.Fun FactThere is debate among Japanese native speakers about whether でも should be considered
  its own word, or if it is actually just a combination of the particles で and も (or て and も in the case
  of verbs, but we will cover that later). As で and も together could be translated as 'even with (A)',
  it would also be correct to consider it this way.CautionWhen grouped with 何 , the pronunciation will
  almost always change to なん. This is purely to make なんでも easier to say.
examples:
  - japanese: スプーンでも缶詰が開く。
    english: A can will open, even with a spoon.
  - japanese: どこでもいいよ。
    english: Anywhere is good.
  - japanese: いつでも家に来てください。
    english: Please come to my house anytime.
  - japanese: いつでも電話に出るから。
    english: I will answer the phone anytime.
  - japanese: いつでも洗濯できますよ。
    english: I can do laundry anytime.
  - japanese: 誰でも彼の名前を知っています。
    english: Everyone knows his name.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/でも
false_friends:
  - term: か (question)
    meaning: Or
    kind: synonym
  - term: か何か
    meaning: Or something, Or something like that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ても
    meaning: Even if, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: もしも～なら・もしも～でも
    meaning: If, Supposing
    kind: synonym
