grammar_point: に応じて
jlpt: N2
meaning: Depending or based on, According to, In response to, Suitable for or to,
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: に応じてis a combination of に, and the て-form of the る-Verb応じる 'to apply to'. This grammar structure
  is often translated as 'depending on (A), (B)', or 'in response to (A), (B)'. However; in almost all
  cases, it is just indicating that (B) is something that is done in a way that is 'applicable' to what
  is necessary of (A).に応じてwill appear after nouns, or asに応じたwhen directly modifying a second noun.Fun-fact
  -応じる usually indicates the way something 'responds to' or 'answers' an issue on a case-by-case basis.
  Due to this, what happens in (B) will frequently indicate something that changes depending on the intensity
  or severity of (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 日本語を教える際には、生徒達のレベルに応じてクラスを分ける必要があります。
    english: When teaching Japanese, it is necessary to divide classes according to the level of the students.
  - japanese: この地域の土地は、面積に応じて値段が高くなります。
    english: Land in this area is priced according to its surface area.
  - japanese: 私たちはクライアントの要望に応じたデザインを提供しています。
    english: We provide designs that meet our clients' requests.
  - japanese: ジムでは実力に応じて、練習を選べるべきだ。
    english: At the gym, you should choose exercises suitable to your ability. (in response to)
  - japanese: 住民からの依頼に応じて小学校の周辺での車の通行禁止が決定された。
    english: In response to a request from the residents, a ban on passing through the area around the
      elementary school in vehicles has been decided.
  - japanese: 赤ん坊のために年齢に応じたダイエットが必要です。
    english: For a toddler, it is necessary to have a diet that is suitable for their age.
  - japanese: このフードプロセッサーは条件や目的に応じてペースト状にしたり細かくチョッピングしたりするなどのさまざまな機能が取り替えできる。
    english: This food processor can swap between various functions like creating a paste, fine chopping,
      and others, depending on the requirements or purpose. (In response to)
  - japanese: 日本人は相手への尊敬度に応じて、お辞儀の角度を変える。
    english: The Japanese change the angle of their bow, depending on the degree of respect for the other
      party. (in response to)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に応じて
false_friends:
  - term: に応えて
    meaning: In response to, Meet
    kind: synonym
  - term: に合わせて・に合った
    meaning: In accordance with, Matching, Fitting, Suitable for, Adjust or tune to
    kind: synonym
  - term: 次第だ・次第で
    meaning: Depending on, So
    kind: synonym
  - term: からして
    meaning: Even..., Judging from, Based on
    kind: synonym
  - term: をもとに
    meaning: Based on, From, According to
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしたがって
    meaning: As, Following, As then, According to, In accordance with
    kind: synonym
  - term: に沿って
    meaning: Along, In accordance with, In line with
    kind: synonym
