grammar_point: わけがない
jlpt: N3
meaning: There is no way, There is no reason, It is impossible, Cannot be
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: One of the strongest ways to use thenounわけ in Japanese, is in the expressionわけがない. This is regularly
  translated as 'there is no way that (A)', or 'it is impossible that (A)'. However, as mentioned in other
  わけ lessons, わけ is used very similarly to 'so' in English, so may also be thought of as 'it is SO not
  (A)', with 'so' being used for emphasis. In this structure, わけ is combined with thecase marking particleが,
  and theい-Adjectiveない.わけがないmay be used with verbs, or adjectives in theirattributive form.CautionCompared
  to わけではない,わけがないis much stronger, and emphasizes the 'non-existence' of something. This can be thought
  of as similar to the difference between 'it is so that it isn't (A)' (for わけではない), and 'it is SO not
  (A)' (forわけがない).'It is so that it isn't (A)' highlights that (A) is a thing that exists, but not in
  the way of (A). On the other hand, 'it is SO not (A)' highlights that no part of (A) whatsoever can
  be considered to be correct/accurate.
examples:
  - japanese: このステーキ2キロもあるの？！こんなの一人で食べれるわけがない！
    english: This steak weighs 2kg?! I SO can't eat something like this alone!
  - japanese: キムラシェフが作ったパスタだよ、不味い訳がないじゃん！
    english: This pasta is made by Chef Kimura, there is no way this would taste bad!
  - japanese: このアパートは線路の隣にあるから静かなわけがない。
    english: This apartment is next to the train track, so there is no way it is quiet.
  - japanese: 彼はいつも遊んでいるが、暇なわけではない。
    english: He is always going out, but it is not necessarily so that he has a lot of free time.
  - japanese: 彼はいつも仕事をしているから、暇なわけがない。
    english: Since he is always working, he SO does not have any free time.
  - japanese: 日本人ならそんなことを言うわけがない。
    english: There is no way that a Japanese person would say that.
  - japanese: 手を繋いでいるので、子供が勝手にどこかに行くわけがない。
    english: I am holding my kid's hand, so there is no way that he would just run off somewhere.
  - japanese: 日本にいるだけで、日本語を学べるわけがない。
    english: There is no way you can learn Japanese from just being in Japan.
  - japanese: あれだけ着込んだら寒いわけがない。
    english: There is no reason why you would feel cold, wearing all those extra clothes.
  - japanese: 彼が嘘をつくわけがない。
    english: There is no way he would lie.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/わけがない
false_friends:
  - term: ことはない
    meaning: There is no need to, Never happens
    kind: synonym
  - term: はずがない
    meaning: Hardly possible, Cannot be, Highly unlikely, Improbable
    kind: synonym
  - term: わけではない
    meaning: It doesn't mean that, It is not the case, It's not like
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようがない・ようもない
    meaning: There's no way to, It's impossible to
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうもない
    meaning: Very unlikely to, Does not seem that, Does not appear that
    kind: synonym
