grammar_point: つまり
jlpt: N3
meaning: In short, To sum up, In other words
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: つまり (or詰まり) is a word in Japanese that is often used as anadverb. It takes a previous statement
  (said either by the speaker or by someone else) and summarizes it. This translates as 'in short', 'in
  other words', and similar expressions in English.Fun Factつまりcomes from verb詰まる meaning to become 'packed',
  or 'condensed'. This means that the literal translation is ofつまりis quite similar to its English interpretation.
examples:
  - japanese: ハマサキさんはまた何も言わずに休んだのですか？つまり、また無断欠勤という事ですね。
    english: Hamasaki-san didn't come to work without saying anything again? In other words, he ditched
      work again, didn't he?
  - japanese: 彼氏と本当に別れたの？つまり、もうあんな奴と関わらなくていいということ？
    english: Did you really break up with your boyfriend? In other words, that means we don't have to
      deal with him anymore?
  - japanese: また誰か辞めたんですか？つまり、今すぐ新しい人を見付けないといけないという事ですね。
    english: Someone quit again ? In other words, we need to find a new person as soon as possible, right?
  - japanese: あなたは昨日一日中家でゲームをして、家の事は何もしなかったってことですね。つまり一日中ダラダラしていたという事ですね。
    english: You are saying that you were at home playing video games without doing any chores yesterday.
      Condensed, you were being lazy. (In short)
  - japanese: 明日何時でも良いんだって。詰まり、夜遅くなっても良いらしい。
    english: They said anytime tomorrow is good. To sum up, it seems that even late at night is ok.
  - japanese: 彼はいつも約束を破る。詰まり、私のこと好きじゃないよね。
    english: He's always breaking his promises to me. In other words it seems that he isn't fond of me,
      right?
  - japanese: この車は電気自動車です。詰まり、ガソリンがいらない。
    english: This is an electric car. In other words it doesn't need gasoline.
  - japanese: 'A：「 問題が起きました。」B: 「詰まり、何が言いたいんですか？」'
    english: 'A: ''We have a problem.'' B: ''In short, what are you trying to say?'''
  - japanese: 長々と説明したけど、結論を言うと、詰まりそれは失敗だったということだ。
    english: I gave a very long explanation but, in short, we concluded that it was a failure.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/つまり
false_friends:
  - term: 要するに
    meaning: To sum up, In summary, In short
    kind: synonym
  - term: 即ち
    meaning: In other words, That is, Namely
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということは
    meaning: That means, That is to say
    kind: synonym
