grammar_point: 限り
jlpt: N2
meaning: As long as, While… is the case, Limited to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Although several grammar patterns make use of the う-Verb限る 'to limit',限りmay be the most versatile.
  This is partly because it does not include に like other限る based structures, and therefore will have
  its meaning modified by the word that comes directly before it.限り will follow verbs in their standard
  forms, and nouns linked to である. Let's take a look at a few of the standard meanings and translations.The
  first meaning indicates that (B) is something that is limited to being within the scope of (A). This
  is the most standard meaning and can be translated as 'limited to (A), (B)'.The second meaning highlights
  that within the limit or scope of some particular source of information, (B) is true. This scope usually
  relates to the senses (like vision), or to knowledge. This may be interpreted as 'as far as (A), (B)',
  'as long as (A), (B)'.The third and final meaning of限り will imply that 'limited to (A) being the case,
  (B) will occur'. In this nuance,限り simply implies that assuming that (A) is true, (B) is something that
  will need to be taken into account as well. This will be interpreted as 'while (A) is the case, (B)',
  or 'assuming (A), (B)'.Despite these various meanings,限る will always highlight (A) as the limit or constraint
  within which the logic of (B) exists.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼が真剣に芸人になりたいと言っている限り、彼の夢は叶うだろう。
    english: Him achieving his dream is limited to him being serious about becoming a comedian.
  - japanese: この商品の販売は今週限りとさせていただきます。
    english: Sales of this item will be limited to this week.
  - japanese: 彼から聞いた限り、田中君は退学になるらしい。
    english: As far as I heard from him, apparently, Tanaka-kun is getting expelled.
  - japanese: このアパートの住人である限りは、アパートのルールを守っていただかないと困ります。
    english: As long as you are a resident of this apartment, we need you to follow the apartment rules.
  - japanese: 日本に住む限り、日本の法律を守らなければいけない。
    english: Assuming that you live in Japan, you need to obey Japanese law.
  - japanese: 家族の大黒柱である限り、家族を支えなければならない。
    english: Since I am the pillar of the family, I must support my family.
  - japanese: ウォーミングアップを忘れない限り、怪我する可能性は低い。
    english: As long as you don't forget to warm-up, the possibility of getting injured will be low.
  - japanese: ホラー映画の主人公：「ぴたりと寄り添って歩く限り、だれも迷子にならないだろう。」
    english: 'Horror movie protagonist: ''As long as we are walking close to one another, no-one will
      get lost.'''
  - japanese: A：「すみません、スーパーはこの辺りですか？」 B：「知っている限りでは、もうちょっと前にあります。」
    english: 'A: ''Excuse me, is there a supermarket around here?'' B: ''As far as I know, it is a bit
      further down the road.'''
  - japanese: 銀行強盗のお互いの会話：「動作中は誰も私たちの顔を見てない、調べた限りね。」
    english: 'Conversation between bank robbers: ''As far as I know (after making sure), no-one has seen
      our faces during the operation.'''
  - japanese: A：「田中さんって結婚してるの？」 B：「聞いた限りでは、まだ独身よ。」
    english: 'A: ''Is Tanaka-san married?'' B: ''As far as I have heard, he is still single.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/限り
false_friends:
  - term: とは限らない
    meaning: Not necessarily so, Is not always true, There is no guarantee that
    kind: antonym
  - term: からには
    meaning: As long as, Since, Given
    kind: synonym
  - term: さえ〜ば
    meaning: If only…then, As long as..., Provided..., Only thing ... needs for ... is ...
    kind: synonym
  - term: に限る
    meaning: Nothing better than, There's nothing like, Limited to
    kind: synonym
