grammar_point: につけ
jlpt: N2
meaning: Whenever, Every time something happens
meaning_warning: Rarely used in modern times, mostly in literature, 文学的・古い
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: In a similar way toにつき,につけimplies that there is a something that is 'affixed' to the event or
  occasion of (A). However, unlikeに就きthis structure is a combination of に and the conjunctive form of
  the る-Verb付ける 'to affix', or 'to adhere'.When usingにつけ, the most common translation will be that something
  is happening 'every (A)', or 'whenever (A)'. In the (B) part of the sentence, the thoughts or feelings
  of the speaker will often be expressed in relation to (A). Additionally, (B) will always be something
  that is thought to happen naturally due to (A).This structure may appear with either verbs or nouns
  in their dictionary forms.It is also possible to seeにつけて, but the abbreviated form is far more common.Caution
  - This is considered a fairly old-fashioned grammar structure, so will mostly only be seen in literature
  or shows that are emphasizing a specific time period.
examples:
  - japanese: 元カノが写っている写真を見るにつけ、胸が痛くなる。
    english: Every time I see a picture with my ex-girlfriend, my heart aches.
  - japanese: この防波堤で釣りをするにつけ、父親のことを思い出す。
    english: Every time I fish on this pier, it reminds me of my father.
  - japanese: 彼は何かにつけ文句を言うので、一緒にいるだけで疲れる。
    english: Since he complains whenever anything happens, it's exhausting being around him.
  - japanese: 妻は妊娠中なので悲しいにつけ嬉しいにつけ、すぐに泣き出します。
    english: Since my wife is pregnant she cries easily whenever she is sad or happy.
  - japanese: あの時先輩に言われた事を思い出すにつけて、怒りが込み上がってきます。
    english: Every time I remember what my senpai said to me, I get filled with anger.
  - japanese: 彼と一緒に時間を過ごすにつけて、なんでこんな人と付き合っているんだろうと思う。
    english: Every time I spend time with him, I think to myself, 'why am I still dating such a person'.
  - japanese: この絵を見るに付け、子供の頃のことを思い出す。
    english: Every time I see this picture, I recall my childhood.
  - japanese: 私は昔から古い写真にとても興味があった。写真を見るに付け、撮られた人は誰なのか、後にどんな生活を送っていたのかなど疑問に思う。
    english: Since long ago, I have been interested in old pictures. Whenever I see a photo, I wonder
      who the people are, what kind of life they led, etc.
  - japanese: 私の高校生の生活を思うに付け、あの時の楽しさを思い出す。
    english: Every time I think on my high school life, I recall how much fun I had.
  - japanese: 隣の叔父さんは何かに付けて文句を言う人だ。
    english: The old man next door is a person who complains whenever something (anything) happens.
  - japanese: 悪い噂を聞くに付けて、だんだん不安になってきた。
    english: Every time I hear a bad rumor, I gradually become anxious.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/につけ
false_friends:
  - term: ごとに
    meaning: Each, Every
    kind: synonym
  - term: おきに
    meaning: Repeated at intervals, Every other, Every, At intervals of
    kind: synonym
  - term: たびに
    meaning: Each time, Every time, Whenever
    kind: synonym
