grammar_point: おわる
jlpt: N4
meaning: To finish, To end
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: To express that actions are beginning, or ending in Japanese, the verbs始める(to commence), or終わる(to
  end) will need to be used. In this lesson, we will focus on actions that are 'ending'.To say that (A)
  is ending/finishing, we will need to attachおわるto the ます stem of almost any verb. Whether you use the
  hiragana form, or the kanji form does not matter, as there will be no change in nuance.Due toおわるbeing
  a verb itself, the tense can be changed to show that something will end, is ending, or has ended.CautionUnlikeはじめる,
  which uses the transitive form,終わるuses the intransitive form of its transitive/intransitive pair. This
  is due to most actions in Japanese being considered to be things that 'come to an end' naturally (intransitive),
  rather than forcefully (transitive). However, there are exceptions to this, and終える (the transitive version)
  may also be seen used as an auxiliary to other verbs.
examples:
  - japanese: 荷物は全部届け終わりました。
    english: I have finished delivering all the packages.
  - japanese: この車のローンは明日払い終わる。
    english: I will finish paying the loan for this car tomorrow.
  - japanese: 学生生活は明日で終わります。
    english: My student life will end tomorrow. (Will finish)
  - japanese: ん、で終わる言葉を使って負けた。
    english: I used a word ending with ん, and lost. (Is finishing)
  - japanese: 戦争は20年前に終わった。
    english: The war ended 20 years ago. (Has finished)
  - japanese: ２時間もかかったけど、食べおわりました。
    english: It took two hours but I finished eating.
  - japanese: ３時ごろに作りおわる。
    english: I will finish making it around three o'clock.
  - japanese: この番組は見おわった。
    english: I finished watching this program.
  - japanese: 走りおわったのは何時ぐらいでしたか？
    english: Around what time did you finish running?
  - japanese: 宿題を直しおわった人は教えてください。
    english: Those who have finished fixing the homework, let me know.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/おわる
false_friends:
  - term: はじめる
    meaning: To start, To begin to
    kind: antonym
  - term: だす
    meaning: To suddenly begin, To start doing
    kind: antonym
  - term: 込む ②
    meaning: Remain, To do thoroughly, Deeply, Intensely
    kind: synonym
  - term: てしまう・ちゃう
    meaning: To do something by accident, To finish completely・totally, Unfortunately
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上がる・上げる
    meaning: Something is finished, To finish something, Something has come to an end, To do something
      completely, To do something through
    kind: synonym
  - term: 切る
    meaning: To do something completely to the end, Utterly, Resolutely
    kind: synonym
