grammar_point: あくまでも
jlpt: N1
meaning: To the (bitter) end, Stubbornly, Persistently
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 飽く is the old-fashioned and somewhat poetic version of飽きる the る-Verb meaning 'to tire of (A)',
  or 'to get sick of (A)'. When used in conjunction with theadverbial particlesまで 'until', and も 'even',飽くまでもwill
  imply that (A) is being done 'persistently', 'stubbornly', or 'to the bitter end'. The more literal
  translation of 'to continue (A) even to the point of getting tired of it' fits these interpretations
  quite well.飽くまでもwill often come at the beginning of sentences before going on to describe that thing
  that is being done persistently.も is not required, and飽くまでmay sometimes be seen without it. However,
  as the phrase is quite strong, it is far more common for も to be included to highlight the emphasis.Due
  to the persistence that the verb飽く itself can highlight, it will often be seen together in sentences
  that include words like つもり 'intention', to show that someone intends to do something regardless of
  the consequences.Despite飽くまでbeing a combination of飽く and まで, it will appear in most dictionaries as
  a standaloneadverbin modern Japanese.
examples:
  - japanese: 容疑者はあくまでも自分がしたことを認めようとしませんでした。
    english: The suspect stubbornly refused to admit what he had done.
  - japanese: 私たちはあくまでもあなたのお子さんを見つけるつもりです！
    english: We intend to look for your child until we can find them!
  - japanese: 彼女はあくまでも子供たちには秘密にしておこうと思っていたが、これ以上子供たちには嘘をついていられないと思い、子供たちに全てを話した。
    english: She thought that she would have kept it a secret from her kids till the bitter end, but she
      couldn't lie to her children any longer, so she told them everything.
  - japanese: 犯人のことなら私にお任せください！あくまで彼を捕まえるまで探し続けるつもりです！
    english: Leave it up to me to find the culprit! I intend to look for them until I catch them!
  - japanese: 飽くまでも、不正に立ち向かおうとします。
    english: I will fight against injustice to the end.
  - japanese: 飽くまでもやると言うなら、私は止めません。
    english: If you (stubbornly) insist on doing this, I won't stop you. (to the end)
  - japanese: 彼女は政治的圧力にも関わらずその新税に飽くまで反対した。
    english: Despite political pressure, she opposed the new tax to the bitter end.
  - japanese: 被告は飽くまでも無罪を主張するつもりらしい。
    english: I have heard that the defendant insists on claiming his innocence until the bitter end.
  - japanese: イラ次長は飽くまでも意見を変えませんでした。結果、このプロジェクトを葬らざるを得ませんでした。
    english: Vice Director Ira stubbornly didn't change her decision. As a result, we had no choice but
      to shelve the project. (to the end)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/あくまでも
false_friends: []
