grammar_point: ことだから
jlpt: N2
meaning: It is exactly because
meaning_warning: ことだから ≠ ものだから*
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ことだからis a set expression used for indicating that the speaker is fairly certain about (B), based
  specifically on their experience with (A). This is often translated as 'it is exactly because (A) that
  (B)', or 'precisely because it is (A), (B)'.ことだからis a combination of the noun こと 'thing', だ, and から.
  The literal meaning can be interpreted as 'from that it's (A), also (B)'. This just implies that due
  to (A) being a predetermined fact, (B) too can be assumed to be true.When making assumptions,ことだからwill
  often be seen following verbs in their dictionary forms, or nouns followed by の.Alternatively,ことだからmay
  appear following verbs in any of their standard forms when the situation of (A) is considered as a good
  opportunity to also do (B), according to the speaker.Lastly,ことだからmay simply imply (strongly) that (A)
  is the reason for (B). In these cases, either verbs in their standard forms or nouns followed by の may
  precedeことだから.Despite having these three slightly different nuances, the speaker's intended meaning will
  usually be clear in the (B) part of the sentence. Due to this,ことだからmay always be thought to simply mean
  that 'by the logic of (A), definitely (B)'.
examples:
  - japanese: あの人がすることだから、どうせ人を騙して儲けているに違いない。
    english: Precisely because it is something that person does, there is no doubt that he is making money
      scamming people.
  - japanese: いつも遅れてくる田中くんのことだから、今日も遅れてくるだろう。
    english: It is exactly because Tanaka-kun always arrives late, that he will probably arrive late today.
  - japanese: お父さんとお母さんが珍しくうちに来ていることだから、久しぶりにみんなで映画でも見よう。
    english: Dad, mom, considering that you guys are here, which is a rare occasion, why don't we watch
      a movie together for the first time in a while.
  - japanese: 撮影が無事終わったことだから、打ち上げでもしましょう！
    english: Considering that we have finished filming, it is a good opportunity for us to have a party!
  - japanese: お客様のプライバシーに関わることなので、これ以上詳しいことは言えません。
    english: Because this is something that has to do with the privacy of our customer, we can't give
      you further details.
  - japanese: 部長のことだから、またミスをしたらクビにさせられると思う。
    english: It is exactly because it is my boss, he will probably fire me if I mess up again.
  - japanese: あなたのことだから間違いなくうまくいくと思うよ。
    english: It is exactly because it's you that I definitely think it will go well.
  - japanese: そういうことだから、一人でそういうところには行かない方がいい。
    english: It is exactly because that is the case, it is better not to go alone to such a place.
  - japanese: いつもウソをついている彼のことだから、今回も信じがたい。
    english: It is exactly because he is always lying that it is hard to believe him this time too.
  - japanese: それは学術的なことだから、僕はうまく説明できない。
    english: It is exactly because it is scholarly that I can't explain it well.
  - japanese: 学級委員長のことだから、ちゃんと先生に伝えてくれるよ。
    english: It is exactly because they are the class president, that they will properly tell the teacher
      for us.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことだから
false_friends:
  - term: ものだから
    meaning: Because, The reason is
    kind: synonym
  - term: なぜなら〜から
    meaning: Because, The reason is, That is because
    kind: synonym
  - term: もの・もん
    meaning: Because, Cause
    kind: synonym
  - term: からこそ
    meaning: Emphasized because, Precisely because
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことから
    meaning: From the fact that
    kind: synonym
