grammar_point: と共に
jlpt: N3
meaning: Together with, At the same time,  As well as
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 共is a noun in Japanese that is frequently used as a either aprefix, or asuffix. In the case ofと共に,
  it is used in conjunction with thecase marking particleと as an adverb.と共にexpresses that (A) will happen
  'together with (B)', or 'at the same time as (B)'.と共にmay be used after verbs,い-Adjectives,な-Adjectivesor
  nouns. Withな-Adjectives, it will sometimes be preceded byである.Fun Factと共にis a structure that is used
  when two things are 'existing' in the same way. This means that it may be used to show mutual actions,
  or that it may be used to show mutual qualities (states of existence). Because of this nuance 'to be
  mutually (A)' is one of the closest literal translations ofと共に. (A) may be an action, an adjective,
  or even a noun!
examples:
  - japanese: 風が強くなると共に雨が降ってきます。
    english: As the wind gets strong, it will start to rain.
  - japanese: あの先生は厳しいが、厳しいと共に優しい。
    english: That teacher is strict, but as strict as he is, he is also very kind.
  - japanese: 僕が住んでいる場所は静かであると共に、空気が綺麗だ。
    english: The place I live is very quiet, together with the air being clean.
  - japanese: 私と共に人生を歩んでくれませんか。
    english: Would you please walk together with me forever. (歩む is a poetic way of saying 'to walk' that
      often means 'to travel a passage')
  - japanese: 年を取ると共に、身体がどんどん硬くなってきた。
    english: As I get older, I am starting to get less flexible.
  - japanese: この池は綺麗であると共に、危険である。
    english: This lake is beautiful and dangerous at the same time.
  - japanese: 私と共に論文の発表をしてくれませんか。
    english: Would you mind presenting the paper with me?
  - japanese: 息子が日本に住んでいるので、寂しいと共に、誇りもあります。
    english: Since my son lives in Japan, I feel sad as well as proud.
  - japanese: 年を取ると共に、体が動きにくくなる一方だ。
    english: As we grow older, it becomes more and more difficult to move our bodies. (Along with)
  - japanese: そのシリーズ本は怪奇であると共に、恐ろしいと考えられている。
    english: This book series is considered mysterious, as well as terrifying.
  - japanese: 夜明けと共に旅立った。
    english: (I) departed with the break of dawn. (together with)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/と共に
false_friends:
  - term: に伴って・に伴い
    meaning: As, Due,  Along with, Hand-in-hand with, Resulted in, Be consequent upon
    kind: synonym
  - term: と並んで
    meaning: In line with, Comparable with, Along with, Just like, As … as
    kind: synonym
  - term: 合う
    meaning: To or for one another, Mutually, With
    kind: synonym
  - term: と (quotation)
    meaning: And
    kind: synonym
  - term: につれて
    meaning: As…then, In proportion to, (Along) with
    kind: synonym
  - term: と同時に
    meaning: At the same time as, The instant, The moment, As well as
    kind: synonym
