grammar_point: すら
jlpt: N1
meaning: Even
meaning_warning: Sometimes you can encounter 「すらさえ」in song lyrics, which is used to emphasize すら more.
  However, this should be avoided as it is not a common expression.
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: すらis anadverbial particlein Japanese that basically translates as 'even'. The primary difference
  between it and も is thatすらtends to present far more extreme examples to which a specific rule applies,
  and therefore also applies to all other less extreme examples. In most casesすらwill be used with a negative
  nuance.Asすらis an adverbial particle, it will be seen directly after nouns, or nouns followed by case-marking
  particles.すらmay also be followed by も in order to emphasize the point even further.Cautionすらand さえ are
  relatively similar in terms of strength. However,すらis more formal and cannot be used in the さえ～ば construction.すらalso
  tends to be the most extreme example from within a large group, while さえ places more emphasis on a specific
  individual.Fun Factは, も, さえ, and すら are alladverbial particlesthat share a linear relationship in regards
  to the way that they are used. This relationship refers to the intensity of how (A) fits into a group.
  This can be imagined as follows.(A) は - (A) is as expected, and there is nothing surprising about it.(A)
  も - (A) also fits the category of the main topic (は), but may or may not be surprising.(A) さえ - (A)
  also fits the category of the main topic (は), but is quite surprising when examined individually.(A)
  すら - (A) also fits the category of the main topic (は), but is the most extreme example possible, thus
  implying that anything below that level also applies.
examples:
  - japanese: 鉛筆すら持ってきてないの？本当にやる気あるの？
    english: You didn't even bring a pencil? Do you actually want to do this?
  - japanese: 子供ですらできることをできないのか。お前よくここまで生きてこれたな。
    english: You can't do what even a child can do. How have you managed to live this long?
  - japanese: 彼にすら話してないのに、親と話すわけがない。
    english: I haven't even talked to my boyfriend about it, there is no way I'm telling my parents.
  - japanese: ガラケーすらも使えないのに、パソコンが使えるわけないじゃん。
    english: I can't even use a flip phone, there is no way I can use a computer.
  - japanese: そこさえ乗り越えれば、あとは楽になるよ。
    english: If you can overcome that, everything will be a breeze.
  - japanese: そんなことさえ乗り越えることができないのなら、この先何もできませんよ。
    english: If you can't even overcome something so simple, you won't be able to do anything beyond this
      point.
  - japanese: 記事：「カラスは道具を使用する能力を示したことすらあります。」
    english: 'Article: ''Crows have even demonstrated the ability to use tools.'''
  - japanese: 南極大陸では夏ですら気温が0度以下である。
    english: In Antarctica, temperatures are below zero even in summer.
  - japanese: マンガの迷った主人公：「何日たったのかすら...」
    english: 'A lost manga protagonist: ''I don''t even (know) how many days have passed…'''
  - japanese: ノベル、語り手：「負傷により、走るどころかベッドから立ち上がることすらもできない。」
    english: 'A novel, narrator: ''Due to her injuries, let alone running, she can''t even stand up out
      of bed.'''
  - japanese: ノベル、語り手：「友達どころか家族にすら説明せずに旅に出た。」
    english: 'A novel, narrator: ''Without even explaining to his family, let alone friends he embarked
      on a journey.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/すら
false_friends: []
