grammar_point: べきではない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
meaning_warning: する →すべきではない・するべきではない
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As an extension of theauxiliary verbべき, that is partnered with verbs to convey 'ought to do (A)',べきではない(or
  べきじゃない) highlights the opposite, and means 'ought not to (A)', 'should not (A)', or 'must not (A)'.
  Just likeべき, it is quite strong, and implies that doing (A) would be considered improper/incorrect.べきではない(or
  べきじゃない) will be paired with the plain (non-past) form of a verb.CautionAs with all other structures
  that use では, は may be omitted. However, as the presence of は strengthens the ない, the overall phrase
  will sound a little bit weaker without it.Fun FactThe combination ofするandべきis a rare grammatical exception
  in Japanese, in which two forms are both considered equally correct. Due to this, either するべき, or すべき
  may be used.
examples:
  - japanese: 濡れている手でコンセントに触れるべきではない。
    english: You must not touch the outlet with wet hands.
  - japanese: どんなにいう事を聞かなくても、子供に手をあげるべきじゃない。
    english: No matter how much a child doesn't listen to what you say, you ought not to raise your hand
      at them.
  - japanese: 一人であの山に行くべきではない。
    english: You must not go to that mountain alone.
  - japanese: 人を傷つけるような事を言うべきでない。
    english: You ought not to say anything that could hurt a person's feelings.
  - japanese: テストの前に徹夜をするべきではない。
    english: You ought not to stay up all night before a test.
  - japanese: くだらないことで警察に電話すべきではない。
    english: You must not call the cops for something trivial.
  - japanese: 腐っている食べ物を食べる可きではない。
    english: You shouldn't eat food that is rotten.
  - japanese: 禁煙場所では、タバコを吸う可きではない。
    english: You should not smoke in places that are non-smoking.
  - japanese: 大したことないよ。心配をする可きではない。
    english: It's not important. You shouldn't worry about it.
  - japanese: 人が嫌がることをする可きではない。
    english: You should not do things people dislike.
  - japanese: 人の悪口を言う可きではない。
    english: You should not speak ill of others.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/べきではない
false_friends:
  - term: べき
    meaning: Must, Should , Ought to
    kind: antonym
  - term: たほうがいい
    meaning: It'd be better to, Should do
    kind: antonym
  - term: なくちゃ・なきゃ
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: antonym
  - term: はずだ
    meaning: Bound to (be), Expected to (be), Should be (able)
    kind: antonym
  - term: なければいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: antonym
  - term: なければならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: antonym
  - term: ことだ
    meaning: Should, Ought
    kind: antonym
  - term: ものだ
    meaning: Supposed to, Should, That's the way it is
    kind: antonym
  - term: てはいけない
    meaning: Must not, May not
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないほうがいい
    meaning: It'd be better not to, Shouldn't do
    kind: synonym
