grammar_point: だけしか
jlpt: N3
meaning: To emphasize '~only', Nothing but
meaning_warning: Can express pity
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: だけしかis a combination of twoadverbial particles, だけ 'only', and しか 'nothing but'. This structure
  primarily follows nouns, before part (B) of the sentence will have a corresponding ない based word.Despite
  all of these possibilities, it should be noted that だけしか～ない is an expression that appears with negative
  verbs, far more than any of the other combinations.Fun Factだけしかmay appear as though it is saying 'only'
  twice, but each particle has its own specific nuance. These nuances are as follows:だけ - Removes one
  thing (from within a group), and presents it as the 'only' thing that fits a certain criteria.しか - Highlights
  something that exists by itself as not having any alternatives.Due to this, each meaning compounds together,
  with だけ saying 'just this', while しか adds 'and only this!'. Reversing the order and putting しか before
  だけ would not work, as the sequence of selection needs to be logical.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は野菜だけしか食べられません。
    english: He can only eat vegetables.
  - japanese: 土曜日だけしか空いてる日がないから、出来たら土曜日がいい。
    english: I have no days except for Saturdays that are free, so if possible, it would be better if
      it was a Saturday.
  - japanese: この中ではタケシだけしか下手じゃない。他はみんな結構うまい。
    english: In this group, Takeshi is the only one that isn't good. Everyone else is considerably skilled.
  - japanese: 何でこのコップだけしか500円ではないの？
    english: Why is this cup the only one that is 500yen?
  - japanese: 私は日本語だけしか話せないです。
    english: I can only speak Japanese.
  - japanese: 日曜日しかだけ休みが取れない。
    english: I can take only breaks on Sunday. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 日曜日だけしか休みが取れない。
    english: I can only take breaks on Sunday. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: この時間、医師は一人だけしかいません。
    english: At this time of day, there is only one doctor present.
  - japanese: 椅子はここにあるものだけしかありません。
    english: Chairs are the only things here.
  - japanese: 私には従兄弟が一人だけしかいません。
    english: I only have one cousin.
  - japanese: 僕は日本語だけしかできません。
    english: I can only speak Japanese.
  - japanese: 現金は今1000円だけしかありません。
    english: I only have 1000 yen in cash.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だけしか
false_friends:
  - term: だけ
    meaning: Only, Just
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかり
    meaning: Just, Only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: しか～ない
    meaning: There's only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: きり
    meaning: Only, Just, Since
    kind: synonym
