grammar_point: つもりだ
jlpt: N5
meaning: To plan to, To intend to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Auxiliary Verb
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 名詞
  単語の種類: 助動詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: つもり だ (or です ) is a grammar point that can have several meanings in Japanese, but is often translated
  simply as 'intend to (A)', or 'plan to (A)'. It can be used after the plain (dictionary) form of verbs,
  or after the ない form.In the last two sentences, there is quite a large difference in nuance, and can
  be thought of as similar to the difference between 'to intend not to' ない つもり , and 'to have no intention
  of' つもり は ない in English. The former will mean that (A) is being actively avoided, while the latter will
  indicate that one simply has no plans to (A).Fun FactThe literal meaning of つもり comes from the verb
  積 もる, which means 'to pile up', or 'to load'. Due to this, つもり is regularly used to describe people
  that are doing something that is out of character for them, meaning that they have 'piled up' whatever
  feeling was required to act that way.In this example, the nuance of つもり is 'so you're really going to
  act like you're apologizing?!' However, the literal meaning is closer to 'so you've really piled up
  enough (nerve) in order to act like that's an apology?!'CautionThe は in つもり は ない is interchangeable
  with が or じゃ (usually では is not used). The difference in nuance is that が gives the impression of being
  'uninterested' in (A), while じゃ simply expresses that (A) is not the intended result.
examples:
  - japanese: それは謝ってるつもり?
    english: Is that intended to be an apology? (Do you really think that is an apology?)
  - japanese: 今日は先生と話すつもりがない。
    english: I don't have any intention to talk to the teacher today.
  - japanese: 今日は何も買うつもりじゃない。
    english: I don't intend on buying anything today.
  - japanese: 日本に行くつもりだ。
    english: I intend to go to Japan.
  - japanese: 日本語を勉強するつもりだ。
    english: I intend to study Japanese.
  - japanese: 日本語を勉強して、日本に行くつもりだ。
    english: I intend to study Japanese and go to Japan.
  - japanese: 明日早く起きるつもりです。
    english: I intend to wake up early tomorrow.
  - japanese: 車で行くつもりです。
    english: I intend to go by car.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/つもりだ
false_friends:
  - term: よていだ
    meaning: Plan to, Intend to
    kind: synonym
  - term: はずだ
    meaning: Bound to (be), Expected to (be), Should be (able)
    kind: synonym
  - term: 〜ようと思う・〜おうと思う
    meaning: I think I will, I think I shall, Going to, Gonna (Volitional + と思う)
    kind: synonym
  - term: つもりで
    meaning: With the intention of doing, Instead of..., Act as if or pretend, Believing that..., Thinking
      that...
    kind: synonym
