grammar_point: ものですから・もので
jlpt: N2
meaning: Because, The reason is, That is because
meaning_warning: Informal → もんだから/もんで, *ことだから ≠ ものだから
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ものですからis a strong, slightly emphasized version ofものだから, a phrase that is used when explaining
  something or giving an excuse for one's reasoning. This grammar structure can simply be thought of as
  an extension of から 'because', with the noun もの 'thing' having its usual role of emphasizing what is
  said before it. Common translations include 'because (A)', and 'the reason is (A)'.ものですからmay appear
  directly after verbs and い-Adjectives, or な-Adjectives and nouns that are followed with な.Occasionally,ものですからwill
  be abbreviated toもので, orもんで, without any change in the overall meaning. The change of だ to its conjunctive
  form で indicates that there is something coming after, despite the fact that what comes after may sometimes
  be omitted if it is obvious.Despite the slight difference in emphasis,ものだからandものですからcan be thought of
  as a single interchangable grammar structure in most situations.Fun-fact - Although it is not a rule,ものですからwill
  primarily be used when explaining one's actions, as a way of emphasizing that the situation of (A) specifically
  led to the speaker doing (B).
examples:
  - japanese: 昔大工として働いていたものですから、リフォームなら私に任せてください！
    english: Because I used to work as a carpenter, if you are renovating, leave it to me!
  - japanese: この道路は狭いものですから、スピードを落として運転をしてください。
    english: Because this road is narrow, please drive slowly.
  - japanese: 苦いものが苦手なものですから、コーヒーやお茶は飲めません。
    english: Because I don't like bitter things, I can't drink things such as coffee and tea.
  - japanese: この車は中古なものですから、不具合だらけです。
    english: Because this car is second hand, it is full of defects.
  - japanese: 彼は日本に住んでいたもので、日本語はまあまあ話せます。
    english: Because he lived in Japan, he speaks Japanese fairly well.
  - japanese: 私は運転をするのが嫌いだもんで、出かけるときにはいつもタクシーと電車を使っている。
    english: Because I don't like driving, I always use taxis and trains when I go out.
  - japanese: いや、危なかったもんで...
    english: Well, because it was dangerous…
  - japanese: この広場では花火が禁止なものですから、他の場所を探さなければなりません。
    english: Because fireworks are prohibited in this plaza, we have to find another place (to set them
      off).
  - japanese: 天体観測が趣味なものですから、新しい望遠鏡が欲しいのです。
    english: Because my hobby is astronomical observation, I want a new telescope.
  - japanese: 銀行の窓口がとても混んでいたものですから、遅くなってしまいました。
    english: Because the ticket window at the bank was crowded, I was (unfortunately) late.
  - japanese: 熊の足跡があったものですから、山に入るのはやめました。
    english: Because there were bear tracks, I gave up on going into the mountains.
  - japanese: アクセントが違ったものですから、地元の方ではないのかと思いました。
    english: Because his accent was different, I thought, he isn't from my hometown.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ものですから-もので
false_friends:
  - term: から (because)
    meaning: Because, Since
    kind: synonym
  - term: ので
    meaning: Because, So, Since, The reason being
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものだ
    meaning: Supposed to, Should, That's the way it is
    kind: synonym
  - term: もの・もん
    meaning: Because, Cause
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものだから
    meaning: Because, The reason is
    kind: synonym
  - term: なぜなら〜から
    meaning: Because, The reason is, That is because
    kind: synonym
