grammar_point: につき
jlpt: N2
meaning: Due to, On account of, Each or every
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Although rarely seen in its kanji form,につきis a grammar pattern that comes from a combination
  of に and the conjunctive form of the う- Verb就く 'to take up (A)', or 'to assume (A)'. This meaning is
  usually in regard to assuming a new position, such as a new job.However, the particular meaning conveyed
  here will be closer to 'due to (A), (B)', 'on account of (A), (B)', or 'for each (A), (B)'.につきwill follow
  nouns directly, before the (B) part of the sentence describes what is happening 'due to' or 'on account
  of (A)'.This grammar point is quite formal, so it is often seen in formal documents, announcements,
  and notifications.Regardless of the several common English translations, the base meaning of 'to affix
  to (A)' is kept in all of the uses ofにつき, as it simply implies that (B) is in answer to, exists in a
  way that is directly linked to, suitable for, or caused by (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 閉店につき、特別セール開催中！
    english: Due to our store closing, there is a special sale going on!
  - japanese: 工事中につき、この先立ち入り禁止。
    english: Due to construction, entry beyond this point is prohibited.
  - japanese: この商品は大人気のため、一人につき二つまでとさせていただいております。
    english: Since this product is very popular, we are limiting it to two per person.
  - japanese: 開店に就き、事務員を募集する。
    english: On account of opening a new shop, we are hiring clerks.
  - japanese: 暑い気象に就き、ケイティ・シェリーのコンサートがキャンセルされました。ご迷惑をおかけして申し訳ありません。
    english: Due to hot weather, Katy Sherry's concert has been canceled. We are sorry for the inconvenience.
  - japanese: 改築に就き、２ 階のお手洗をご使用ください。ご迷惑をおかけして申し訳ありません。
    english: Due to renovation, please use the restroom on the second floor. We are sorry for the inconvenience.
  - japanese: 明日は祭日に就き、会社は休みです。
    english: On account of tomorrow's festival, the company will be closed.
  - japanese: 工事中に就き、迂回してください。
    english: Due to construction, please take a detour.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/につき
false_friends:
  - term: にあたり・にあたって
    meaning: When, When doing something, On the occasion, At the time
    kind: synonym
  - term: まい～のように
    meaning: Almost every ~, Nearly every ~, On a ~ basis
    kind: synonym
  - term: ために
    meaning: Due to, Because of, As a result of
    kind: synonym
  - term: について
    meaning: Concerning, About, Regarding
    kind: synonym
  - term: おかげで
    meaning: Thanks to, Because of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかりに
    meaning: Simply because, Only because, Just because, Simply on account of
    kind: synonym
  - term: せいで
    meaning: Because of, Due to, Blame
    kind: synonym
