grammar_point: ものの
jlpt: N2
meaning: Although, But, Even Though
meaning_warning: が and けれども can replace ものの, ものの cannot always replace が and けれども
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: もののis a formal conjunction-particle used to illustrate that while (A) is a fact, the result or
  condition of (B) cannot be attributed to (A), could not be predicted through (A), or is in direct contrast
  to (A).もののmay appear directly after verb, い-Adjectives, nouns followed by である, or な-Adjectives followed
  by な.Caution -もののmay only be used when the subject or topic of the sentence is the same in both the
  statements preceding and following it.
examples:
  - japanese: マッチングアプリで出会った人とデートに行ったものの、共通点が何もなかったのでまた会うことはないだろう。
    english: Although I went on a date with someone I met on a matching app, we had nothing in common,
      so I doubt we will meet again.
  - japanese: 今の仕事の給料は高いものの、家族と過ごせる時間が少ないから転職を考えている。
    english: Although my current job pays well, I am considering changing jobs because I don't have much
      time to spend with my family.
  - japanese: あのお店が出す商品はユニークではあるものの、高すぎるので手が出せない。
    english: Although the products offered by that store are unique, they are too expensive for me to
      afford.
  - japanese: 伊藤先生は英語の先生ではあるものの、日常的な英語は話せないそうだ。
    english: Even though Ms. Ito is an English teacher, I have heard that she doesn't speak everyday English.
  - japanese: 彼女はいろんな楽器を演奏できるものの、楽譜は読めないらしい。
    english: Although she can play a lot of instruments, I heard that she can't read music.
  - japanese: 彼は日本語を勉強しているものの、韓国語も勉強している。
    english: Although he is studying Japanese, he is also studying Korean.
  - japanese: 今年ようやく運転免許の試験を受けてみたものの、めったに運転しない。
    english: Although I finally tried taking my driving test this year, I rarely drive.
  - japanese: 子供のころはずっと医者になりたいと言っていたものの、本当になることは期待していなかった。
    english: Although I constantly said 'I want to become a doctor' during my childhood, I never expected
      to actually become one.
  - japanese: 由美子先生は経済の専門家ではあるものの、学校以外の仕事をしたことがない。
    english: Although professor Yumiko is an expert in economics, she has never worked outside of the
      university.
  - japanese: 金魚が好きだとは言ってみたものの、本当にプレゼントされたら少し困る。
    english: Although I said I like goldfish, if I actually received one as a present I wouldn't be thrilled.
  - japanese: クーラーを最大にしてみたものの、全然涼しくならない。
    english: Even though I got the largest air conditioner, (the room) doesn't get cool at all.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ものの
false_friends:
  - term: にもかかわらず
    meaning: Despite, In spite of, Regardless, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: のに (in order to)
    meaning: Despite, Although, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: 割に
    meaning: Although, Despite, Rather...for, Unexpectedly, Comparatively, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: つつ(も)
    meaning: Even while ~ing, Even though ~ing, Despite ~ing, Although ~ing
    kind: synonym
  - term: が (subject marker)
    meaning: But, However
    kind: synonym
  - term: けれども
    meaning: But, Although
    kind: synonym
