grammar_point: そう
jlpt: N4
meaning: Look like, Appear, Seem, Have a feeling that
meaning_warning: Do not confuse withそうだ(I heard that...).
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: そうだis one of the 18 primaryauxiliary verbsin Japanese, and can be used in two (2) different ways.
  The broad meaning in each of its applications is that something 'seems' to be a certain way. Due to
  this,そうis regularly translated as 'seems like', 'looks like', or 'appears as though'.In this lesson,
  we will focus on the form that is used with the conjunctive (stem) form of words. Please examine the
  structure guide to see these forms.Cautionそうmay also be used when attached to theい-Adjective, ない. In
  this case, there is a unique conjugation rule which we will need to be careful of. As always, い will
  be removed from ない before attachingそう. However, さ will be inserted between な, andそう. This creates the
  expression なさそう.Note that this addition of さ does not happen with verbs. This is due to the ない that
  is used with negative verbs being anauxiliary verb,  and not anい-Adjective. With theauxiliary verbない,
  simply remove the い, before addingそうdirectly to the stem.CautionThisそうis utilized exclusively to make
  predictions/guesses about something based on visual information. It is relatively low confidence, so
  should not be used for things that are obvious. In these cases,みたいwould be used instead.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女は毎日走っていそうだ。
    english: She seems like she runs everyday.
  - japanese: これは正しそうだ。
    english: This seems correct.
  - japanese: あの店員は丁寧そうだ。
    english: That clerk seems like he is attentive.
  - japanese: 彼の部屋は汚くなさそうだ。
    english: His room doesn't seem messy.
  - japanese: あの車は小さくて便利じゃなさそう。
    english: That car is small, and looks inconvenient.
  - japanese: 彼はもうイギリスに帰らなそうだ。
    english: It appears that he is not going back to England.
  - japanese: 明日は朝から雨が降るみたいだ。
    english: It looks like it is going to start raining tomorrow morning. (Higher confidence)
  - japanese: 明日は朝から雨が降りそうだ。
    english: It seems like it is going to start raining tomorrow morning. (Lower confidence)
  - japanese: 雪が降りそうです。
    english: It looks like it is going to snow.
  - japanese: 先生の仕事は難しそうです。
    english: The job of being a teacher looks difficult.
  - japanese: 今日の宿題は簡単そうだ。
    english: Today's homework looks easy.
  - japanese: その食べ物は食べやすそう。
    english: That food looks easy to eat.
  - japanese: この教科書はとても難しそうです。
    english: This textbook seems very difficult.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/そう
false_friends:
  - term: そうもない
    meaning: Very unlikely to, Does not seem that, Does not appear that
    kind: antonym
  - term: そうにない
    meaning: Unlikely to, Showing no signs of
    kind: antonym
  - term: みたい
    meaning: Like, Similar to, Resembling
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ①
    meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
    kind: synonym
  - term: のように・のような
    meaning: Like (Noun), Similar to (Noun)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように・ような
    meaning: As・like, Just like
    kind: synonym
  - term: にみえる
    meaning: To look, To seem, To appear
    kind: synonym
  - term: ような気がする
    meaning: Have a feeling that
    kind: synonym
  - term: っぽい
    meaning: -ish, -like, Characteristic of, Typical of, Tendency to
    kind: synonym
