grammar_point: でできる・からできる
jlpt: N4
meaning: Made of, Made from, Produced from, Come from
meaning_warning: できている → more specific, できる → more general
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: でできる, orからできるare two structures that share very similar meanings. Basically, they both mean '(B)
  was made from/out of (A)'. These constructions highlight the 'ingredients', or 'materials' that something
  is/was made out of. Let's look at some examples.からandでare bothcase marking particlesin this grammar
  point, and while they express much the same thing when translated into English, there is a slight nuance
  difference. These differences are as follows:から- Literally 'prepared from'. Tends to be used more frequently
  when the material is not obvious at first glance. May also put focus on the ingredients/materials before
  there was any alteration.で- Literally 'prepared with'. Tends to be used more frequently when the materials
  are more obvious.Despite this, recent generations useでin most situations, regardless of if the material
  is visible at first glance or not. As a result,でできるandからできるare almost indistinguishable in modern Japanese.CautionThere
  is also a small nuance difference betweenできる, andできている, when used as part of this construction.できるis
  usually used when talking about something broadly 'everything in category (B) is made from (A)', whileできているis
  used more frequently when examining a specific item 'this particular (B) is made from (A)'. Like the
  difference betweenでandからthough, they are largely interchangeable.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は卵と鶏肉でできる料理を紹介します。
    english: Today we will introduce a food that is made from eggs and chicken.
  - japanese: 味噌は大豆からできると職人さんが教えてくれた。
    english: A craftsman told me that miso is made from soybeans.
  - japanese: 最近はコンクリートでできる家が人気だ。
    english: Recently, houses made of concrete are popular. (Houses in general)
  - japanese: この箸は竹でできている。
    english: These chopsticks are made from bamboo. (This specific pair of chopsticks)
  - japanese: 裏面がガラスでできているスマホは最近売行きがいい。
    english: Recently there has been demand for smartphones with the back made of glass.
  - japanese: このワインはトップクラスのブドウからできています。どうぞ飲んでください。
    english: This wine is made from top-class grapes. Please, try it.
  - japanese: スーパーは木曜日にミルクからできている製品のセールをするよ！
    english: The supermarket is having a sale of products made from milk on Thursday! (come from)
  - japanese: このスマホの裏面はプラスチックでできているみたいだけど、実は塗装したメタルです。
    english: The back of this smartphone seems to be made of plastic, but in reality, it is made from
      painted metal.
  - japanese: 飛行機は軽い素材でできている。
    english: It is necessary to build planes from light materials.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/でできる-からできる
false_friends: []
