grammar_point: だす
jlpt: N4
meaning: To suddenly begin, To start doing
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: だす, or出すin its kanji form is a verb that is regularly attached to theconjunctive formof other
  verbs. When it is connected in this way, it has the meaning of 'to suddenly do (A)', or 'to burst into
  (A)'.To use this construction, simply addだすto the ます stem (conjunctive form) of the verb that you want
  to highlight as happening 'suddenly'.CautionUnlikeはじめる, another common structure which means 'to begin',だすquite
  often has the nuance of being unintentional, or something that the subject cannot avoid doing (or cannot
  be controlled). On the other hand,はじめるexpresses the direct intention of the subject to do (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 最初から速く走りだすのは体に良くない。
    english: It is not good for your body if you suddenly start running fast.
  - japanese: 転んだ息子が泣きだす前に、あめをあげる。
    english: I give my son candy before he bursts into tears after falling.
  - japanese: コンサートで歌手が歌を歌い始める。
    english: At the concert, the singer will start singing. (Something that has been planned to be started)
  - japanese: 最近、友達が授業中に歌いだした。
    english: Recently, my friend suddenly burst into song during class. (Something that happened without
      any prior plan/expectation)
  - japanese: 彼は答えを言い出す時に、くしゃみをした。
    english: He sneezed just as he started to say the answer. (sudden)
  - japanese: あの子は急に泣き出した。
    english: That child suddenly started crying.
  - japanese: 面白いことを今思い出した。
    english: I suddenly remembered something funny.
  - japanese: 夜中に夫が急に餃子を作りだした。
    english: My husband suddenly started to make dumplings in the middle of the night.
  - japanese: 何も言わないで走り出した。
    english: Without saying a word, he suddenly began running.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だす
false_friends:
  - term: おわる
    meaning: To finish, To end
    kind: antonym
  - term: はじめる
    meaning: To start, To begin to
    kind: synonym
  - term: いきなり
    meaning: For no reason, Suddenly, All of a sudden
    kind: synonym
  - term: かけ
    meaning: Half-, Not yet finished, About to, Begin to
    kind: synonym
