grammar_point: たところで
jlpt: N1
meaning: Even if ~ cannot or will not, Even though ~ not
meaning_warning: The た-form is generally not used in the clause following ところで
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ～たところで is a grammar construction that combines the simple-past form of a verb, the noun ところ 'place',
  and the case-marking particle で.As with most other grammar patterns that ところ is seen with, the focus
  is on the situation of the verb occurring. ～たところで is often translated as 'even if (A), not (B)', or
  'even if (A), it won't be (B)'.This 'even if' nuance is created by the fact that ～たところで sentences will
  never have something in the past tense in the second half of the sentence, despite using the past tense
  before ところ. This is similar to the English 'even if (A) were to happen, (B) would still not occur'.As
  can be seen by the examples above, ～たところで will convey things that are counter to what the speaker either
  wants to, or wishes would happen. Due to this, the (B) half of the sentence will almost always be something
  unfavorable.Fun FactDue to ～たところで always marking some kind of negative result in (B), (A) will often
  be preceded by words such as 今 さら, いくら, or どんなに. These usually just emphasize the frustration that the
  speaker feels about the inevitable result.
examples:
  - japanese: 私が告白したところで、彼女は応じないだろう。
    english: Even if I confessed my love, she wouldn't respond.
  - japanese: 徹夜で勉強したところで、合格しない。
    english: Even if I studied all night, I would not pass.
  - japanese: すみませんが、今注文をキャンセルしたところで、お金は返金できませんよ。
    english: I am sorry, even if you cancel the order now, we cannot refund your money.
  - japanese: 「いまごろ車に乗って行ったところで間に合いようがない。」
    english: Even if you went by the car right now, you cannot to be on time.
  - japanese: 「謝ってみたところで、 彼女が許してくれるわけじゃないけど。」
    english: '''Even if I try to apologize, it doesn'' t mean she will forgive me.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たところで
false_friends:
  - term: にせよ・にしろ
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter, Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: たって
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter how
    kind: synonym
