grammar_point: から見ると
jlpt: N2
meaning: From the point of view of, By the look of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: から見るとis a common sentence pattern seen when something is being viewed either from the perspective
  of (A), or a judgment is being made based on looking at the situation of (A) objectively. This may be
  translated either as 'from the point of view of (A), (B)', or 'from looking at (A), one could say (B)'.This
  grammar construction is comprised of the conjunction particle から 'from', the る-Verb見る 'to look', and
  any of the usual hypothetical statement markers such as と, たら, ば, or even the て-form. It will appear
  following nouns.Caution -から見るとtends not to be used with things that cannot actually physically be seen
  or assessed, such as smells, sounds, etc.
examples:
  - japanese: アニメに興味がない人から見ると、どのアニメも同じに見える。
    english: From the point of view of someone who is not interested in anime, all anime looks the same.
  - japanese: 外からみたら、私のコレクションはゴミに見えるでしょう。
    english: From an outside point of view, my collection probably just looks like garbage.
  - japanese: 私から見れば、彼女はあまり美人じゃない。
    english: From my point of view, she is not that much of a stunner.
  - japanese: このタイヤ跡の大きさから見て、犯人はトラックを使ったに違いない。
    english: By the looks of the size of these tire tracks, the perpetrator must have used a truck.
  - japanese: あの人の喋り方から見ると、あの人は日本人ではないだろう。
    english: From the point of view of how they speak, that person probably isn't Japanese. (Unnatural
      Japanese)
  - japanese: 老人夫婦から見ると、若者の恋愛は懐かしい。
    english: From the point of view of elderly couples, young love is nostalgic.
  - japanese: 外から見ると、やりやすそうです。
    english: From an outside point of view it looks easy.
  - japanese: 普段から見て、今年は稀な気象が多かった。
    english: From the view point of what is normal, there were a lot of rare weather phenomena this year.
  - japanese: 脇役から見ると主役は羨ましいが、主役は主役で大変らしい。
    english: From the point of view of a supporting role, the lead part is enviable, however the lead
      role looks very tough.
  - japanese: 小学生から見ると中高生は大人に見えるが、実際はそうでもない。
    english: From the point of view of an elementary schooler, junior and senior high schoolers look like
      adults, but that is not really the case.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/から見ると
false_friends:
  - term: にしたら
    meaning: From the point of view of
    kind: synonym
  - term: からして
    meaning: Even..., Judging from, Based on
    kind: synonym
  - term: からすると・からすれば
    meaning: Judging from, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: から言うと
    meaning: Speaking in terms of, From the point of view of
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしては
    meaning: (Even) considering, (Even) for
    kind: synonym
