grammar_point: がち
jlpt: N3
meaning: Apt to do, Tend to do, Prone to do
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: がちis asuffixin Japanese that will be used after nouns, or theconjunctive formof verbs. It conveys
  that someone is 'apt to (A)', 'tends to (A)', or 'is prone to (A)'. Although not always negative,がちis
  most frequently used to express negative tendencies.Fun Factがちas a grammar structure comes from the
  word勝ち, meaning 'a win'.勝ち in itself is used to express something that appears 'repeatedly', or 'again
  and again'. Due to this,がちmay be thought of as similar to 'to win out' in English, meaning that 'although
  there are many possibilities, (A) winning out is the most likely'. This 'winning out' may be due to
  preference, or sheer good/bad luck.
examples:
  - japanese: ここに来るといつもパフェを頼みがちだけど、今日はパンケーキを頼む。
    english: When I come here I always tend to order parfait, but today I am getting a pancake.
  - japanese: うちの子は病気がちなので、週に二、三日ぐらいは学校を休みます。
    english: My son tends to get sick a lot, so he will take 2 to 3 days off of school.
  - japanese: サボりがちな人はだいたい成績が悪い。
    english: People who tend to skip school usually have bad grades.
  - japanese: 暇なときはテレビを見がちだけど、忙しい時には全然見ない。
    english: Watching TV wins out when I am bored, but when I am busy I don't watch it at all.
  - japanese: 俺が回すと当たりがちだから、俺にやらせてみろ。
    english: Hitting the jackpot wins out when I spin it, so why don't you let me do it.
  - japanese: 釣れないことはありがちだから、落ち込まなくてもいいよ。そういう日もあるさ。
    english: Times that you cannot catch anything often win out, so don't be so upset. It happens.
  - japanese: 私の息子は病気がちだ。
    english: My boy is apt to get sick.
  - japanese: さぼりがちな生徒を家まで迎えに行って、学校へ連れてきた。
    english: I went to the house of the student who tends to skip school, and brought him back.
  - japanese: あの人はすぐ、痩せることを諦めがちだ。
    english: That person is prone to quickly give up on losing weight.
  - japanese: 車ばかり乗っていると、運動不足になりがちだ。
    english: If you are always riding around in a car, you tend to not get enough exercise.
  - japanese: 私は元気だと思われがちですが、実は体が弱いんです。
    english: I am prone to be considered energetic, but I actually have a delicate constitution.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/がち
false_friends:
  - term: っぽい
    meaning: -ish, -like, Characteristic of, Typical of, Tendency to
    kind: synonym
  - term: きらいがある
    meaning: Have a tendency to, Tend to, Be slightly~
    kind: synonym
