grammar_point: かい
jlpt: N4
meaning: Question marker
meaning_warning: strongly masculine
details:
  Register: Casual
  使用域: タメ語
writeup: Thesentence ending particleかいis a grammar structure that is used in Japanese to highlight a question.
  Despite commonly being thought of as one word, it is actually the combination ofか(the sentence-ending
  particle) and い, another sentence-ending particle that is primarily used by men (in a similar way toねandよ).かいwill
  usually be used directly after the word/phrase that it is highlighting. In the case of verbs andい-Adjectives,のmay
  be inserted beforeかい. Forな-Adjectivesand nouns,なのmay be inserted directly before it. However,の(orなの)
  are frequently omitted, due to how casualかいis.When it is not omitted,の(orなの) may be shortened to ん (or
  なん）. This is in the same way thatのandなのwould behave in theのですandなのですgrammar structures.Although there
  are some exceptions,かいwill almost always be used to ask simple yes/no questions.CautionBecauseかいis very
  casual, and quite direct, it often sounds like an accusation. Due to this, care should be taken with
  your tone of voice, so as not to be taken the wrong way.Fun FactOutside ofかい, the sentence ending particle
  い is not commonly used in modern Japanese, and therefore will only appear in a few very specific structures
  (like だい). Despite being similar toね, い is considered to be fairly ぞんざい 'rough', and should only be
  used with people that you are very familiar with, and never to someone above you.
examples:
  - japanese: このドーナッツを食べたいのかい？
    english: Do you want to eat this donut?
  - japanese: このおもちゃが欲しいのかい？
    english: Do you want this toy?
  - japanese: 彼女は綺麗なのかい？
    english: Is your girlfriend pretty?
  - japanese: 彼はいい人なのかい?
    english: Is he a good person?
  - japanese: お前も一緒に行きたいんかい？
    english: Do you also want to come with me?
  - japanese: 大学生なんかい。中学生だと思った。
    english: You are a college student? I thought you were a middle schooler.
  - japanese: 勉強してるのかい？
    english: Are you studying?
  - japanese: また鍵をなくしたんかい。
    english: You lost your keys again, didn't you?
  - japanese: 本当に行きたいのかい？
    english: Do you really want to go?
  - japanese: これだけで十分なのかい？
    english: Is just this enough?
  - japanese: その帽子を被って行くのかい？
    english: Are you really going to go wearing that hat?
  - japanese: どうしたの？恥ずかしいのかい？
    english: What's wrong? Are you embarrassed?
  - japanese: この番組を見たくないのかい？
    english: You don't want to watch this TV program?
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かい
false_friends:
  - term: か (question)
    meaning: Question marking particle
    kind: synonym
