grammar_point: たちまち
jlpt: N2
meaning: Immediately, Quickly, Suddenly, In a moment or flash
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: たちまちis an adverb in that is used to convey the feeling of something happening 'suddenly', or
  'in a flash'. The primary nuance withたちまちcompared to other similar structures is thatたちまちindicates that
  something happened spontaneously, and was not able to be controlled.In many cases,たちまちwill indicate
  something entering a new, ongoing state, or something being completed.たちまちwill often appear directly
  before the verb phrase that it is describing as being the new state.Fun-fact -たちまちoriginally comes from
  the kanji structure忽ち, with the kanji itself meaning 'without thought'. This nuance is kept withたちまち,
  as all actions associated with the word indicate a lack of planning or thought before happening. Despite
  this, the kanji itself is rarely used in modern writing.
examples:
  - japanese: あのレコード会社に所属するアーティストたちはたちまち有名になる。
    english: Artists who belong to that record company quickly become famous.
  - japanese: 私と田中さんはたちまち仲良くなった。
    english: Tanaka-san and I immediately became friends.
  - japanese: 冷蔵庫に入れておいたシナモンロールはたちまち妻の胃袋へと消えた。
    english: The cinnamon rolls I had put in the fridge quickly disappeared into my wife's stomach.
  - japanese: 小さな村で噂が忽ち広がるのは当然だよ！
    english: It's only natural that rumors would spread in a flash in small villages!
  - japanese: うちの犬は郵便配達員を見ると忽ちフェンスにそって走り始めるのだ。
    english: My dog starts to run along the fence immediately when he sees a postman.
  - japanese: 有名な本は、本棚に並べられたとたんに、忽ち売り切れた。
    english: As soon as the famous book hits the shelves, it sold out immediately.
  - japanese: うちの会社では、いいアイデアを出せば忽ち人気者になれるよ。
    english: At my company, if you produce a good idea you will immediately become popular.
  - japanese: 安易に質を落として値を下げたりすると、忽ち売れなくなる。
    english: If (you) simply drop the quality and the price, (you) will quickly become unable to sell
      it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たちまち
false_friends:
  - term: 直ちに
    meaning: At once, Immediately, As soon as
    kind: synonym
  - term: いつの間にか
    meaning: Suddenly, Unnoticed, Without noticing, Too soon
    kind: synonym
  - term: いきなり
    meaning: For no reason, Suddenly, All of a sudden
    kind: synonym
