grammar_point: べからず
jlpt: N1
meaning: Do not, Must not, Should not, Cannot (べからざる)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: べからず, andべからざるare two formal expressions used to convey the meaning of 'must not (A)', or 'ought
  not to (A)'. It is a combination of thehelper-conjugation formof theauxiliary verbべし, べから, and theclassical
  auxiliary verbず 'not'. ざる itself is just thehelper-conjugation formof ず, meaning that the nuance remains
  exactly the same. In this way, we can see that the literal meaning of 'ought not (A)' exhibits some
  sort of moral or logical obligation, as is true for all uses of べき derived patterns.べからずandべからざるwill
  be seen following verbs in theirdictionary forms. べからざる will be followed by a noun, indicating that
  the noun is being modified by the phrase.In modern Japanese, the meanings of both of these grammar patterns
  have shifted slightly from 'obligation', to simply having a strong nuance of 'don't (A)'. In addition
  to this, they will almost only ever be used on signs or notices.CautionTheべからざるform that combines with
  nouns is usually only seen in a few set variations. These are許すべからざる'cannot be forgiven', ありうべからざる'must
  not exist' (impossible), and欠くべからざる'must not be without'.
examples:
  - japanese: ことわざ：「初心忘れるべからず。」
    english: 'Proverb: ''Do not forget beginner''s humility.'''
  - japanese: この施設内ではスケートボードなどのことをするべからず。
    english: You must not skateboard or anything similar in this facility.
  - japanese: 配達員を装って玄関のドアを開けさせるのは、許すべからざる行為だ。
    english: Making someone open the door, by pretending to be a delivery person is an act that is not
      to be forgiven.
  - japanese: 吸うべからざる場所でタバコを吸っているのを見られたら、1000円払うことになります。
    english: If you are seen smoking in an area where you must not smoke, you will end up having to pay
      1000 yen.
  - japanese: 公園の看板：「芝生にゴミ捨てるべからず」
    english: 'A signboard at the park: ''Do not dump rubbish on the lawn'''
  - japanese: 空気は生きるに欠くべからざるものだ。
    english: Air is essential to life. (Must not lack air)
  - japanese: ブログ記事：「英語で上手にフォーマルな手紙を書くための「べし・べからず」集」
    english: 'Blog post: ''Dos and Don''ts for writing a formal letter in English skillfully.'''
  - japanese: もろい歴史的建造物の手前の看板：「中に入るべからず」
    english: 'A signboard in front of the fragile historic building: ''Do not enter inside'''
  - japanese: 小説：「さだおさんがなにゆえそのような許すべからざる大罪を犯したのか、ゆうささんは解できなかった。」
    english: 'Novel: ''Yusa-san couldn''t understand why did Sadao-san commit such an unpardonable crime.''
      (a crime that cannot be forgiven)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/べからず
false_friends:
  - term: てはいけない
    meaning: Must not, May not
    kind: synonym
  - term: てはならない
    meaning: Must not, Cannot, Should not
    kind: synonym
