grammar_point: に応えて
jlpt: N2
meaning: In response to, Meet
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: にこたえてis a construction formed from に, and the て-form of the る-Verb応える. It is often translated
  as 'to meet (A)', or 'in response to (A)'. Likeに応じて'to apply to',にこたえてindicates that (B) is something
  that will change based on what is considered necessary, suitable, or appropriate on a case-by-case basis
  when it comes to (A).にこたえてoften appears in hiragana alone, and will attach to the end of nouns that
  it is marking as the (A) that something being done in response to.Alternatively,にこたえるwill be used when
  connected directly to a second noun.In many cases, (A) will indicate a request, wish, or expectation.
examples:
  - japanese: 生徒達の要望に応えて、レッスン料金を1000円安くした。
    english: In response to our students' request, we have reduced the lesson fee by 1,000 yen.
  - japanese: クライアントのリクエストに応えて、デザインを少しだけ変えました。
    english: We changed the design slightly in response to the client's request.
  - japanese: 弊社ではお客様のニーズに応えるサービスを提供するよう、日々努力しています。
    english: We are committed to providing services that meet the needs of our clients.
  - japanese: あなたの要望に応える自信はありますが、このデザインを完成させるには時間がかかると思います。
    english: We are confident we can meet your request, but it will take time to complete this design.
  - japanese: 情報公開請求に応えて、事故原因に関する書類が開示された。
    english: In response to the freedom of information claim, the documents regarding the cause of the
      accident were released.
  - japanese: 応援の声に応えて、勝利のチームが礼をした。
    english: In response to the cheering, the victorious team bowed.
  - japanese: 住民の皆様の希望に応え、犬や猫の糞のために、ごみ箱を設置することになりました。
    english: In response to residents' wishes, it has been decided that trash bins for cat and dog litter
      will be installed.
  - japanese: 我が社はクライアントのニーズに応えた商品を開発するべきだ。
    english: Our company should develop products that respond to our clients' needs.
  - japanese: この水泳選手はこのオリンピックで期待に応える成績をあげた。
    english: This swimmer got results that will meet expectations at this Olympics.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に応えて
false_friends:
  - term: に応じて
    meaning: Depending or based on, According to, In response to, Suitable for or to,
    kind: synonym
