grammar_point: ～ても～なくても
jlpt: N3
meaning: Whether ~ or not
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Likeかどうか, another way that Japanese conveys 'whether or not' is through the use of ～ても～なくても.
  This grammar structure literally means 'even if (A), even if not (A)', to show that whatever the result
  is will not change, regardless of (A).～ても～なくても is used primarily with verbs, and will always have the
  same verb appearing both before ても and なくても.
examples:
  - japanese: あの人がいてもいなくても、仕事の量は変わらないから、首にしてもいいと思う。
    english: Whether or not he is here doesn't change the workload, so I think it would be good if we
      fired him.
  - japanese: 私は運動しても運動しなくても痩せられないから、もう運動はしない。
    english: Regardless of whether or not I exercise, I can't lose weight, so I will not exercise anymore.
  - japanese: ここの居酒屋ではビールを頼んでも頼まなくても、ビールを持ってくる。
    english: Regardless of whether you order beer or not, they will bring you one at this izakaya.
  - japanese: 試験に受かっても受からなくても、勉強していたら自分の身になる。
    english: Whether you pass the exam or not, you will still be better off if you studied for it.
  - japanese: この単位が取れても取れなくても、卒業できるだけの単位は取れている。
    english: Whether I get this credit or not, I will still have the necessary credits to graduate.
  - japanese: 担当になってもならなくても、私はあなたの味方です。
    english: Whether you get to be in charge or not, I support you.
  - japanese: 買っても買わなくてもいいので、一度見てもらえませんか？
    english: It doesn't matter whether you buy it or not, why don't you take a look?
  - japanese: 釣れても釣れなくても、釣りは楽しいらしい。
    english: I heard fishing is fun whether you are able to catch any fish or not.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ても-なくても
false_friends:
  - term: ようが～まいが
    meaning: Even if, No matter what, Whether or not, [Emphatic], Volitional + が
    kind: synonym
  - term: かどうか
    meaning: Whether or not, If...or not
    kind: synonym
  - term: 〜でも 〜でも
    meaning: Whether ~ or, Neither ~ or
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても～にしても
    meaning: Regardless of whether
    kind: synonym
  - term: を問わず
    meaning: Regardless of, Whether or not, No matter, With or without
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしろ～にしろ
    meaning: Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: にかかわらず
    meaning: Regardless of, Whether or, No matter, With or without
    kind: synonym
  - term: やら～やら
    meaning: Whether or, Things like, And … so on
    kind: synonym
