grammar_point: といった
jlpt: N2
meaning: Such as, Like, So much as
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: といったis a fairly casual expression which indicates lists in the same way as structures like などの,
  or のような. Stemming from と, and the past-tense form of the う-Verb言う,といったis often translated as '(B) such
  as (A)', or '(B) like (A)'.といったwill always be followed directly by a noun expressing the general group
  that (B) belongs to, with the literal translation being similar to '(B) that can be called (A)'.といったwill
  appear with nouns both in (A) and (B).As can be seen in the last two examples above, constructions such
  as や and とか may be used if there is more than one (B) that fits in the category of (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 私の父は、ゲートボールといったスポーツが好きだそうです。
    english: Apparently my father likes sports such as gateball.
  - japanese: あなたの国ではおはぎといった和菓子は売られていますか？
    english: Are Japanese sweets such as ohagi sold in your country?
  - japanese: 旦那は洗濯や料理といった家事は一切しません。
    english: My husband does not do any household chores such as laundry or cooking.
  - japanese: 私は生姜とかパクチーといった香味野菜を使った料理が苦手です。
    english: I am not a fan of food that uses pot-herbs such as ginger and cilantro.
  - japanese: これといった理由もないのに約束を破ってはいけない。
    english: Since you don't even have so much as a reason you cannot break your promise.
  - japanese: 休みの日に何かを習いに行くといった趣味はない。
    english: My hobbies don't include things such as going to learn something on my days off.
  - japanese: 彼は将棋やポーカーといった勝負ごとに強い。
    english: He is skilled at match-based games like Shogi and Poker. (such as)
  - japanese: 勝敗といったものにこだわるのはやめよう。
    english: Let's stop fussing over things such as winning or losing.
  - japanese: 炊事洗濯といった家事もりっぱな仕事だと思います。
    english: I think doing housework, such as cooking and washing, is a splendid job.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/といった
false_friends:
  - term: なんか・なんて
    meaning: Such as, Things like, Emphasis
    kind: synonym
  - term: とか～とか
    meaning: Among other things, For example, Such as
    kind: synonym
  - term: など
    meaning: Such as, Things like, Etc., And so on
    kind: synonym
