grammar_point: ないまでも
jlpt: N1
meaning: May not … but (at least), Even though not, Even if not
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ないまでもis a combination of the negated form of a verb, the case-marking particle まで 'until', and
  theadverbial particleも 'even'. It will often be translated as 'even though not (A), (B)', or 'it may
  not be (A), but (B)'. This structure usually presents some form of extreme (A) which has not yet been
  reached, but the lower extent of (B) cannot be denied. The literal translation is 'even though not reaching
  (A), (B)'.Depending on the source, this structure may occasionally be used with nouns. In this case,
  it will need to follow ではない, or the casual じゃない.This grammar pattern will be used in both positive and
  negative situations. For example, (A) may be the best outcome, where (B) is something just below that
  which is desirable, or (A) may be the worst outcome, where (B) is just below that, but still quite bad.Often,
  the (B) phrase will express some kind of wish or demand that the speaker wants to meet with structures
  like たい, てほしい, てください, たらどう, つもり, といい, etc.
examples:
  - japanese: この作品は名作だとは言えないまでも、なかなかいい作品だと思う。
    english: This may not be a masterpiece, but I think that it is a pretty good piece.
  - japanese: 犯罪などは完全になくせないまでも、減らすように頑張るべきだ。
    english: Even though it may not be possible to eliminate crime, we should try our best to reduce it.
  - japanese: プロ野球選手にはなれないまでも、プロ野球に関わる仕事をしているので満足している。
    english: Even though I can't become a professional baseball player, I am satisfied because my job
      is related to professional baseball.
  - japanese: 毎週ではないまでも、娘に会えるだけ幸せだ。
    english: I'm just happy to see my daughter, even if it's not every week.
  - japanese: 好きな仕事ができないから幸せじゃないまでも、生活費に困っていないから文句は言えない。
    english: Even though I can't do what I love for work, I can't complain because I am not struggling
      with my bills.
  - japanese: ファンタジー小説：「勇者えみりあを仲間にしないまでも、一度は会ってみたらどうですか？」
    english: 'Fantasy novel: ''You may not make hero Emilia into an ally, but what about meeting her at
      least once?'''
  - japanese: これは不可能ではないまでも、実行するのは困難である。
    english: This may not be impossible, but carrying it out is hard.
  - japanese: 急速充電はバッテリーを直ちに駄目にしないまでも、性能をより速く低下させる。
    english: Fast charging may not immediately damage the battery, but it will decrease its performance
      faster.
  - japanese: リザ「大谷は一番ハンサムといわないまでも、かなりカッコいい男だと思うよ。」
    english: Riza 'I won't say that Ooya is the most handsome, but I think he is quite a cool guy.'
  - japanese: 初めてJLPTN1を受験したが、合格できないまでも、せめて８０点は得点できたい。
    english: I took the JLPT N1 exam for the first time, I may not pass, but at least I want to get 80
      points.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ないまでも
false_friends: []
