grammar_point: いわゆる
jlpt: N2
meaning: What is called, So-called, Generally known
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: いわゆる, occasionally seen in its kanji form所謂, is a word that is used before nouns to indicate
  that something is 'what is called (A)', 'the so-called (A)', or 'generally known as (A)'.いわゆるis a combination
  of いわ, a modern variant of いは, the indeterminate form of言う 'to say', and ゆる, which is the classical
  literary equivalent of theauxiliary verbれる, the displacement verb indicator in its attributive form.
  In this way, the literal meaning of 'what is said to be (A)' is carried over into the English translations.Fun-fact
  - The kanji for謂means 'oral tradition', and highlights the way that something is referred to over the
  course of different time periods, or in different places.
examples:
  - japanese: ハンバーガーやフライドポテトはいわゆるジャンクフードだ。
    english: Hamburgers and French fries are so-called junk food.
  - japanese: それはいわゆる陰謀論というものですね？
    english: That is what is called a conspiracy theory, right?
  - japanese: これはいわゆる和製英語というものです。
    english: This is what is called a loanword.
  - japanese: 本物のように見えるが薬効成分のない薬、所謂偽薬（プラセボ）が場合によって医者から処方されているかもしれない。
    english: Medicine that looks like the real thing, but does not have an active ingredient (what is
      called a placebo), might be prescribed by a doctor in some cases.
  - japanese: 他の言語から取り入れた言葉、所謂借用語は日本語の中によくみられる。
    english: Words introduced from other languages, so-called loanwords, can often be seen in Japanese.
  - japanese: 彼は所謂ゴールドラッシュのおかげで大金を稼いだ。
    english: He has earned his fortune thanks to the so-called gold rush.
  - japanese: それは所謂神話というやつです。信用してはいけません。
    english: That is what is called a myth. I must not believe it.
  - japanese: 彼を犯罪者扱いするのはやめてください。所謂推定無罪ということです。
    english: Please stop treating him as a criminal. (He) is what we call presumed innocent.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/いわゆる
false_friends:
  - term: というのは
    meaning: ~ Known as ~ is, ~ Called ~ is, ~ Means ~, Because
    kind: synonym
  - term: という (each)
    meaning: Called, Named, Known as, As much as
    kind: synonym
