grammar_point: 割に
jlpt: N3
meaning: Although, Despite, Rather...for, Unexpectedly, Comparatively, Considering
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As anadverb,割にis usually used in a similar way to 'although', 'despite', or 'comparatively' in
  English.割にmay be used at the beginning of a sentence, or after any word/phrase that it is highlighting
  as being 'comparative'. When followingな-Adjectivesor nouns, な or の will be required.割itself is anounmeaning
  'proportionate', and is primarily used as asuffix.割にmay be thought of as a direct extension of this
  use, as 'proportionately' is its closest literal meaning.Fun FactWhile割にis often thought to make comparisons
  between things, it actually only ever compares something to itself (or things within the same category).
  The 'proportion' that is then highlighted is something that is not common within the category of (A).CautionBoth割と
  and割にare quite common expressions. However,割と is used far more often in casual speech to show that something
  is 'unexpectedly (A)'. It will also frequently be used as a stand-alone expression, appearing directly
  before the word (usually an adjective) that is of a 'considerable' amount.
examples:
  - japanese: この肉、高い割には味がないね。
    english: Although this meat is expensive, it is not flavorful.
  - japanese: 太っている割には運動神経がいいんだね。
    english: Although you are fat, you are very athletic, aren't you?
  - japanese: この機械のパワーは強い割にめちゃくちゃ遅いです。
    english: Although this machine is very powerful, it is very slow.
  - japanese: この部屋は綺麗な割には臭いね。
    english: Although this room is clean, it smells bad.
  - japanese: ラッシュアワーの割には空いていますね。
    english: Although it is during rush hour, the road is very clear.
  - japanese: これ割と美味しいよ。
    english: This is unexpectedly tasty.
  - japanese: 昨日買った包丁は割といい。
    english: The knife I bought yesterday is quite good.
  - japanese: 高い食べ物の割に、美味しくなさそう。
    english: The expensive food looks unexpectedly unappetizing.
  - japanese: 私はたくさん勉強した割に、テストの点数が悪かった。
    english: Although I studied a lot, I got a bad score on the test.
  - japanese: あの人は頭が良い割に、コミュニケーションが苦手です。
    english: Although that person is smart, he is bad at communication.
  - japanese: 疲れている割には、かなり動けた方だと思います。
    english: I think he is rather quite active for how tired he is.
  - japanese: 今日は冬の割に暖かい。
    english: Today is rather warm for winter.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/わりに
false_friends:
  - term: にしては
    meaning: (Even) considering, (Even) for
    kind: synonym
  - term: に比べて
    meaning: Compared to, When compared to
    kind: synonym
  - term: さえ
    meaning: Even
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものの
    meaning: Although, But, Even Though
    kind: synonym
  - term: むしろ
    meaning: Rather, Instead, Over
    kind: synonym
