grammar_point: のに (despite)
jlpt: N4
meaning: But still, And yet, Even so, Nevertheless
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Althoughのにis often thought of as a simple combination of the particlesのandに, it is actually its
  own particle, with the meaning of 'despite', or 'in order to'. In this lesson, we will focus primarily
  on the 'despite' nuance.Due toのにbeing aconjunction particle, it can be linked to almost any word type,
  to show that 'despite (A), (B)'. As with many conjunction particles, な will be required after a noun/な-Adjective,
  but beforeのに.It is also possible to seeだのに, instead ofなのに, but this is something that is only seen in
  certain dialects, and would be considered incorrect by the vast majority of native speakers.Fun FactRegardless
  of having two quite different translations ('despite', and 'in order to'),のにalways functions in the
  same way.In the situation of '(A)のに, (B)', (B) is/will be the result.The only difference between how
  the nuance will be read, is whether the (B) statement is a logical conclusion, or an illogical one.
  When logical, the meaning is usually 'in order to', when 'illogical', the meaning is usually 'despite'.
examples:
  - japanese: 明日テストがあるのに彼は勉強をしないでゲームをしている。
    english: Despite having a test tomorrow, he is playing games without studying.
  - japanese: 何で納豆は臭いのに美味しいの？
    english: Why does natto taste good, despite smelling bad?
  - japanese: 彼はイケメンなのにいつも汗臭い。
    english: Even though he is a good looking guy, he always smells like sweat.
  - japanese: この車はスポーツカーなのに遅い。
    english: Despite being a sports car, this car is slow.
  - japanese: 虫歯だのに、チョコレートを食べたから歯が痛い。
    english: My tooth hurts because I ate chocolate, despite having a cavity.
  - japanese: 彼は忙しいのに、ゲームをしている。
    english: Despite being busy, he is playing video games. (even though)
  - japanese: 天気予報は悪かったのに、晴れた。
    english: Despite the weather forecast being bad, it was sunny. (even though)
  - japanese: あの女の人はきれいなのに、彼氏がいない。
    english: Despite being pretty, that woman doesn't have a boyfriend. (even though)
  - japanese: 無理って言ったのにまだやるの？
    english: Even though I said it was impossible, you're still going to do it? (despite)
  - japanese: あまり牛乳がないのにスーパーに行った時買わなかったの？
    english: Even though we are running low on milk, you didn't buy any when you went to the store? (despite)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/のに-despite
false_friends:
  - term: ものの
    meaning: Although, But, Even Though
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても
    meaning: Even though, Even if, Even when, Also
    kind: synonym
  - term: くせに
    meaning: Even though, And yet, Despite
    kind: synonym
  - term: ながらも
    meaning: But, Even while, Even though, Despite, Although
    kind: synonym
  - term: それなのに
    meaning: And yet, Despite this
    kind: synonym
  - term: それでも
    meaning: But still, And yet, Even so, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
