grammar_point: にとどまらず
jlpt: N1
meaning: Not limited to, Not only...but also, Not stopping at
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: にとどまらずis a formal structure that pairs thecase marking particleに, the う-Verb止まる 'to remain',
  or 'to be limited to', and theclassical auxiliary verbず 'not'.にとどまらずis generally translated as 'not
  limited to (A)', or 'not stopping at (A)', and follows words indicating an extent, before going on to
  explain how something spreads beyond (A).にとどまらずwill be seen following either nouns, or verbs in theirdictionary
  form.This expression may be used to highlight either positive or negative effects.Cautionにとどまらずwill
  only be used when (B) is something that is expanding outward from the pre-existing boundaries of (A).
  This means that (B) will not be something that isn't directly tied to (A) somehow.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は会社の経費を管理するにとどまらず、社員の給料も管理している。
    english: He not only manages the company's expenses, but also the salaries of its employees.
  - japanese: 先生は授業を行うにとどまらず、部活の指導などもしなくてはならない。
    english: Teachers must not only teach classes, but also supervise club activities.
  - japanese: 寿司は日本にとどまらず、世界中で人気がある。
    english: Sushi is popular not only in Japan but all over the world.
  - japanese: この漫画は子供にとどまらず、大人の間でも話題になっている。
    english: This manga is not limited to children, but has become a topic of conversation among adults
      as well.
  - japanese: このコンサートのチケットにとどまらず、限定グッズなども高かった。
    english: Not only were tickets to this concert expensive, but also limited edition merchandise. (Unnatural
      Japanese)
  - japanese: 間博士の研究分野は遺伝学にとどまらず、微生物学にまで及ぶ。
    english: Doctor Hazama's field of research is not limited to genetics, but it also extends to microbiology.
  - japanese: 会社ウェブサイト：「当社は製品を販売するにとどまらず、その商品の設計もいたします。」
    english: 'Company website: ''Our company is not only selling products but also designing them.'''
  - japanese: 共感は人間にとどまらず、動物にも見られるものである。
    english: Compassion is not only limited to humans but is something that can also be observed in animals.
  - japanese: ボックスステーション７日本国内にとどまらず、海外でも普及しています。
    english: Boxstation7 is not only popular in Japan, but also abroad.
  - japanese: 日本語の学習によって語学力にとどまらず、日本風の考え方も身に着ける。
    english: By studying Japanese, one does not only acquire linguistic ability but also a Japanese way
      of thinking.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にとどまらず
false_friends: []
