grammar_point: 以来
jlpt: N2
meaning: Since, Henceforth
meaning_warning: Cannot be used with recent events
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When the noun,以来'ever since' is paired with the て-form of verbs, or with nouns, it indicates
  that (B) is something that has continued non-stop since (A), or will continue non-stop from (A). This
  may be interpreted as 'since (A)', 'henceforth', or 'ever since (A)'.The key point of以来is that it indicates
  an ongoing state. Due to this, it focuses on (B) being something that will continue non-stop until a
  change is caused externally.Caution - Occasionally,以来may also be used to express a specific number of
  (B) that has occurred since (A). While this use is closer to 'since', it still just indicates that 'in
  total', (B) has occurred 'ever since (A)'. This will place a stronger emphasis on the amount of (B)
  being shocking in some way than a simpler structure like から.
examples:
  - japanese: 2年前にタバコをやめて以来、一本も吸ってない。
    english: I haven't smoked a single cigarette ever since I quit 2 years ago.
  - japanese: 日本に来て以来、全然母国の友達と連絡をとっていない。
    english: I haven't kept in touch with my friends back home ever since I moved to Japan.
  - japanese: 久しぶり！卒業以来じゃない？
    english: Long time no see! (We haven't met) since graduation, right?
  - japanese: 入社以来、あの先輩には色々とお世話になっている。
    english: That senpai has helped me in many ways since I've joined the company.
  - japanese: 海外転職して以来、5年も日本に帰っていない。
    english: I have not been back to Japan for five years since I changed jobs overseas.
  - japanese: 去年この大学に入学して以来、１回しか実家に帰っていない。
    english: I have only been back to my parents' house once since I entered university last year.
  - japanese: 8年前に日本語を勉強し始めて以来、毎日、しっかり勉強してる。
    english: Since I began studying Japanese 8 years ago, I study hard every day.
  - japanese: お父さんは３年前に引退した。それ以来、自由な時間がたくさん。
    english: My father retired three years ago. Since then he has a lot of free time.
  - japanese: 兄が移住して以来、全然連絡が取れない。
    english: Since my brother emigrated, I haven't been able to contact him.
  - japanese: カマチョさんが首相に就任して以来、税金が上がる一方だ。
    english: Taxes keep on rising since Mr. Camacho assumed the office of prime minister.
  - japanese: 休業して以来、再開の目処が立っていない。
    english: Since closing my business, the prospect of reopening hasn't come up.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/以来
false_friends:
  - term: 以上 ②
    meaning: Since, Now that, As long as, If
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上は
    meaning: Once, Since, Now that, As long as
    kind: synonym
