grammar_point: なくして(は)
jlpt: N1
meaning: Without, If not for
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: なくしてはis a hypothetical expression that indicates that 'if not for (A), then not (B)'. It may
  appear as either なしには, なしでは, orなくしては, with little variation in meaning. It is a combination of theconjunctive
  formof the い-Adjective ない, なく, theconjunction particleして, which highlights the word before it as a condition
  from which a determination can be made, and theadverbial particleは.As the second part ofなくしてはsentences
  will also be negative, we can see the more literal meaning of 'from the lack of (A), a lack of (B) can
  be determined'. This 'determination' comes across quite strongly, and may be interpreted as '(B) is
  impossible without (A)'.なくしてはwill appear after either nouns, or phrases that have been nominalized with
  こと.As mentioned previously,なしにはandなしではmay also be seen. These are just thenoun無し 'without', paired with
  either of the particle combinations には or では.なくしてはis the most formal of the three.The (B) part ofなくしてはsentences
  will almost always be some state of completion or desirable outcome that cannot be achieved without
  (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 私は彼女なくしては生きていけないと思います。
    english: I don't think that I can live without her.
  - japanese: 努力なくしては、日本語は上達しません。
    english: Without hard work, your Japanese won't improve.
  - japanese: 失敗することなくしては、成功できないと言われているが本当なのだろうか。
    english: It is said that, without failure you cannot succeed, but I wonder if that is true.
  - japanese: 相手の気持ちを考えることなくしては、友情は続かない。
    english: Friendship cannot last without considering the feelings of the other person.
  - japanese: この国ではエアコンなしには夏を乗り越えられません。
    english: In this country you cannot survive summer without air conditioning.
  - japanese: あなたなしでは生きていけません！
    english: I can't live without you!
  - japanese: スピーチ：「何よりまず我が友人トトロに感謝します。彼なくしては今日の私はなかったと言えるでしょう。」
    english: 'Speech: ''First and foremost, I would like to thank my friend Totoro. It can be said that
      without him, I wouldn''t be the person I am today.'''
  - japanese: 愛なくしては生きられないというが、それが苦痛になることもある。
    english: They say that one cannot live without love, but sometimes it becomes a significant burden.
  - japanese: 名言：「努力なくして成功なし。」
    english: 'Wise saying: ''There is no success without hard work.'''
  - japanese: トランジスタの開発なくして、現在の世界は成立しえない。
    english: The world we know today is not possible without the development of transistors.
  - japanese: 「ノーベル賞受賞はノーベル委員会に是認されることなくしては、ありえないことであろう。」
    english: Receiving the Nobel prize is impossible without the approval of the Nobel Committee.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なくして-は
false_friends: []
