grammar_point: には当たらない
jlpt: N1
meaning: No need to/for, Cannot, Not worth it to, Not suitable
meaning_warning: With する-Verbs, する can be omitted
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: には当たらないis a somewhat formal pattern used in Japanese for indicating that something is 'not worth
  (A)', or that there is 'no need to (A)'. This is a combination of thecase marking particleに, theadverbial
  particleは, and the negative form of the う-Verb当たる 'to strike', or 'to be on the mark',当たらない. Due to
  this, the literal meaning can be thought of as 'it's not on the mark to (A)'.には当たらないwill appear directly
  after verbs in theirdictionary form, or する verbs either with or without the する.Additionally, the は may
  occasionally be omitted, without any change in meaning.Rather than implying that something is 'way off',には当たらないmost
  often simply highlights that a particular situation is not to the extent where (A) would be appropriate.
  (A) itself is regularly a verb that relates to reactions or feelings. Some examples include驚く 'to be
  surprised',非難'to reproach',称賛'to admire',感心'to be impressed',喜ぶ 'to rejoice', and other similar words.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼がまた彼女に振られたの。まあ、あいつは自分のことしか考えていないから驚くには当たらない。
    english: He was dumped by his girlfriend again? Well, that's not surprising because that guy only
      ever thinks of himself.
  - japanese: 人として当たり前のことをやったまでです、感謝するには当たらないですよ。
    english: I just did what any normal person would do, so no need to thank me.
  - japanese: あの人がやったことは人間としては最低だけど犯罪には当たらないから何もできない。
    english: What that person did was despicable, but not suitable to be a crime, so we cannot do anything
      about it.
  - japanese: あのバンドが新しくリリースした曲は歌詞もメロディーも微妙だから聴くに当たらないらしい。
    english: They say that the newly released song by that band is not worth listening to because the
      lyrics and melodies are too subtle.
  - japanese: カグラ：「ギンちゃんは昨日、犬に噛まれたって。かわいそうね。」シンパ千：「同情には当たらない。彼はいつも犬を挑発しているから。」
    english: 'Kagura: ''Gin-chan was bitten by a dog yesterday. Poor guy…''Shinpachi: ''No need to take
      pity on him. He always provokes dogs.'''
  - japanese: 「珍しいことではありません。称賛には当たりません。」
    english: '''It is not uncommon. No need for praise.'''
  - japanese: 母は息子に、母の友達の息子について話します：「坂本ちゃん、試験にトップで合格したそうよ。」息子：「長年英語を勉強した彼が合格することは当然だよ。びっくりするには当たらないよ。」
    english: 'Mother speaking to son about her friend''s son: ''I heard that Sakamoto passed the exam
      at the top of his class.''Son: ''It''s only natural for someone who has studied English for many
      years. No need to be so surprised.'''
  - japanese: 社員１：「田中さんは勤務態度悪いね。」社員２：「でも彼はいつも彼なりに努力をしているのだから、ちょっとだらしないとしても、非難するには当たらない。」
    english: 'Company employee1: ''Mr. Tanaka has a poor working attitude, doesn''t he?''Company employee2:
      ''But he is always doing his best, so even if he is a bit undisciplined, there''s no need to criticize
      him.'''
  - japanese: 「結核は予防接種を受けた健康な人なら、心配するには当たらない。」
    english: '''Tuberculosis is not something you need to worry about if the person in question is vaccinated
      and healthy.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/には当たらない
false_friends: []
