grammar_point: いかなる
jlpt: N1
meaning: What kind of, No matter what kind of, No … (with a negative verb), Any... (with a negative verb)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 如何なるis a combination of如何, and なる. なる being derived from theclassical auxiliary verbなり 'to be'.如何is
  never used as a word by itself, and will always be attached to something else when it has the reading
  of いか. However, its meaning is the same as the modern どう 'how'. Because of this,いかなるis interchangeable
  with どんな 'what kind of', with the exception that it is primarily used only in books and formal writing.いかなるis
  classified as being attributive, meaning that it will appear directly before a noun, or modify anounsomewhere
  within the same clause.Just like どんな, when に is added toいかなる, a negative statement will usually follow.
  This translates as 'no matter how much (A)', or 'no matter what kind of (A)'. However, に will not directly
  followいかなるlike it does with どんな. Instead, it will appear later in the sentence before the verb.Occasionally,いかなmay
  also be used, but this is far less common.Fun FactBoth な and なる are derived from theclassical auxiliary
  verbなり. Structures that stem from なり can be seen in many modern parts of the Japanese language. This
  also includes なら, thehypothetical formof だ, which shares the same meaning of 'to be' as なり. While な
  is the form that appears with most adjectival nouns, なる is still sometimes used in place of な when the
  speaker wants to be poetic, or give a sense of archaism.
examples:
  - japanese: いかなることがあっても、決して手を離してはいけません。わかりましたか？
    english: No matter what happens, you must not let go. Do you understand?
  - japanese: 私たちはいかなる時にも出動できるように、常に訓練しています。
    english: We are constantly training to be ready to dispatch at any moment.
  - japanese: 彼らはいかなる要求にも応じなければならない。
    english: They must comply with any request, no matter what it is.
  - japanese: いかなる状況に置かれても、諦めずに突き進むことを忘れないでください。
    english: Remember, no matter what situation you find yourself in, do not give up and keep pushing
      forward.
  - japanese: 彼らは結婚してから長いから、いかなる困難にあっても、二人で乗り越えられる。
    english: They've been married long enough that no matter what challenges they face, they can overcome
      them together.
  - japanese: いかな状況にも耐え得る人になりたい。
    english: I want to be a person who can withstand any situation.
  - japanese: 論文：「亀とは如何なる魚なのか？」
    english: 'Essay: ''What kind of fish is a turtle?'''
  - japanese: Kappazonグループは如何なる理由であろうとも、Kappazonネットショップから如何なる製品も削除する権利を保有しています。
    english: Kappazon Group reserves the right to remove any product from the Kappazon online store, no
      matter the reason.
  - japanese: シヌラ電気動力株式会社は如何なる第三者にも顧客情報を販売、配布いたしません。
    english: The Shinura Electric Power Company does not sell or disclose any data to third parties (no
      matter what).
  - japanese: 如何なる方ともログイン情報またはパスワードの共有はお控え願います。
    english: We request that you refrain from sharing login or password information with anyone (no matter
      who).
  - japanese: パイロットは如何なる事態になろうとも、適切に対処せねばならない。
    english: A pilot has to react accordingly no matter what the situation might become.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/いかなる
false_friends:
  - term: そんな・こんな・あんな・どんな
    meaning: Such a・Kind of, Something like ~
    kind: synonym
