grammar_point: てならない
jlpt: N2
meaning: Very, Extremely, Can't help but do
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: てならないis a construction made up of the て-form of a verb or adjective (で for な-Adjectives), and
  the negated form of the う-Verb なる, 'to become'. This expression describes the word that is attached
  to it as being 'extremely (A)', or that one 'can't help but do (A)'.In most cases,てならないwill be used
  when (A) is something that occurs naturally, such as feelings. Due to this, a more literal translation
  is close to 'to not be able to move on from (A)'. In this way, it just indicates that (A) is so intense
  that the person affected by it cannot do anything about it.Caution - In addition to being spontaneous
  and uncontrollable, (A) will almost always be something that is ongoing, rather than just being momentary.
examples:
  - japanese: 昨日は徹夜して勉強してたから、眠くてならない。
    english: I was up all night studying yesterday, so I'm extremely sleepy.
  - japanese: 愛知県の夏は暑くてならない。
    english: Summer in Aichi prefecture is extremely hot.
  - japanese: ここ５年間娘と連絡がつかないから、心配でならない。
    english: I can't help but to feel worried because I haven't heard from my daughter in 5 years.
  - japanese: 彼女はいつも僕に嘘をつくからむかついてならない。
    english: I can't help but be extremely mad at her because she lies to me all the time. (Continuing
      feeling, natural Japanese)
  - japanese: この漫画はつまらなくてならない。
    english: This manga is extremely boring. (Momentary feeling, unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 詐欺にあった気がしてならない。
    english: I can't help but feel it was a scam.
  - japanese: 日本に来てから、家族に会えず、寂しくてならない。
    english: Since coming to Japan, I haven't been able to see my family and can't help but feel lonely.
  - japanese: 今週末の同窓会に行けないので、残念でならない。
    english: Since I can't go to my class reunion this weekend I can't help but feel disappointed.
  - japanese: あんなコレクションは無駄に思えてならない。
    english: I cannot help but think that that collection is worthless.
  - japanese: サイレンが鳴り止まないから、心配でならない。
    english: I am extremely worried because that siren won't stop ringing. (I can't help but feel...)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てならない
false_friends:
  - term: ざるを得ない
    meaning: Can't help doing, Have no choice but
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないわけにはいかない
    meaning: Can't not, No way to avoid
    kind: synonym
  - term: てたまらない
    meaning: Can't help but want to, Very, Extremely
    kind: synonym
  - term: てしょうがない
    meaning: Extremely, Very, Really, It can't be helped
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことに
    meaning: Extremely, Especially, To my ...
    kind: synonym
  - term: ずにはいられない
    meaning: Cannot help doing something, Cannot resist doing something
    kind: synonym
  - term: Adj限りだ
    meaning: Extremely, Really, Very, As ... as one can be
    kind: synonym
