grammar_point: Verb[て] + B①
jlpt: N4
meaning: Non-sequence, And, But (Contrast), Parallel action/state
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: One of the common functions that the conjunction particleてhas, is that it can contrast things
  that share some sort of relationship. This is similar to the contrastive use ofは. In order to identify
  this nuance ofて, we will need to think about whether the things being described are happening one after
  the other, or are simply describing '(A), and then (B)'. Let's look at some examples.Due to this 'contrast'
  that is shown withて, sometimes it is translated as 'while (A), also (B)'. The primary difference between
  this nuance ofて, and other 'while' or 'but' grammar points, is that (A) and (B) will always have equal
  weight/importance in aてsentence. Comparatively, structures likeけど,のに,だがand similar points will usually
  imply that either (A) or (B) is more important in some way.
examples:
  - japanese: お姉ちゃんは毎晩勉強をして弟は毎晩ゲームをしている。
    english: My older sister studies every night, and my younger brother plays games.
  - japanese: 妻は買い物に行って、私はごみを捨てに行った。
    english: My wife went shopping, while I went to throw away the trash.
  - japanese: タケルはご飯を食べてナオミはパンを食べる。
    english: Takeru eats rice, and Naomi eats bread.
  - japanese: 朝は雨が降って夕方は晴れた。
    english: It rained this morning, and then it cleared up in the afternoon. (There is no particular
      emphasis on either event)
  - japanese: 朝は雨が降ったけど夕方は晴れた。
    english: It rained this morning, but then it cleared up in the afternoon. (There is emphasis on that
      it stopped raining)
  - japanese: おばあさんはいつもラジオを聴いておじいさんはいつもテレビを観る。
    english: My grandma always listens to the radio, and my grandfather always watches tv. (but・contrast)
  - japanese: 彼女はピアノを弾けてドラムも上手に叩ける。
    english: She can play the piano, and also she can play drums well.
  - japanese: 雨が降って雷が鳴る。
    english: It rains and thunders.
  - japanese: うちの猫はちょっと太っていて、小さくてとーってもかわいいよ。
    english: Our cat is a bit plump and small, it's super cute!
  - japanese: 妹はカナダに行って、弟はイギリスに行った。
    english: My younger sister went to Canada, and my younger brother went to the United Kingdom. (but・contrast)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/verbて-b
false_friends: []
