grammar_point: ゆえに
jlpt: N1
meaning: Because, The reason is, Due to, Therefore, So
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: When thenoun故'consequence' is paired with thecase marking particleに, it will be used in formal
  situations to highlight reasons. This may be interpreted as 'because of (A)', 'due to (A)', or 'the
  reason is (A)'. However, 'consequently to (A)', or 'as a consequence of (A)' are also completely acceptable
  translations that may help to differentiateゆえにfrom less formal structures.As ゆえ itself is a noun, regular
  grammar rules such as being preceded by の will need to be followed if directly following another noun.
  In other cases,ゆえにwill simply attach to thestandard formof words.ゆえにmay also appear at the beginning
  of new sentences. When this happens, it expresses 'as a result of (A)', where (A) is the entire previous
  sentence.The に will need to be replaced with の when ゆえ is being connected to anothernounand therefore
  modifying it.CautionJust like 'as a consequence of' in English,ゆえにtends to be used far more frequently
  in regard to negative reasons than positive ones.
examples:
  - japanese: お巡りさんたちが夜も眠らずにパトロールしているが故に、夜でも安心して散歩できる。
    english: Due to the police officers patrolling the area at night without sleep, it makes it safe for
      us to go on walks at night.
  - japanese: 私のおじいちゃんは目が悪いが故に、運転免許証を返納した。
    english: My grandpa had to give up his driver's license because of his bad eyesight.
  - japanese: 彼の接客は丁寧な故に、お客さんからの評判がいい。
    english: His customer service is courteous and therefore well received by his customers.
  - japanese: 日本ではまだ女性のゆえに差別されることがある。
    english: In Japan, women are still discriminated against because of their gender.
  - japanese: あの国では高齢化が深刻な問題になってきている。ゆえに、海外から若者を呼び込み始めた。
    english: Aging is becoming a serious problem in that country. Due to that, they have started to attract
      young people from abroad.
  - japanese: 若さゆえの過ちであったとしても必ず許さなければならないということでもない。
    english: Just because something was done due to a young age, doesn't mean that it should be forgiven.
  - japanese: 小説：「ベンジャミンの若さ故の自信過剰も無知もミセス・ロビンソンの目からすれば、可愛らしい。」
    english: 'Novel: ''From the perspective of Mrs. Robinson, Benjamin''s overconfidence and naivety,
      due to his youthfulness, is charming.'''
  - japanese: A⇒B、B⇒C 故にA⇒C (Aが真ならばBも真、Bが真ならばCも真。故にAが真ならばCも真である）
    english: A⇒B、B⇒C therefore A⇒C (If A, then B, if B then C. Therefore if A, then C)
  - japanese: ラテン語のフレーズ：「不合理故にわれ信ず 」
    english: 'Latin phrase: ''I believe just because it is absurd.'''
  - japanese: ファンタジー小説：「 ドワーフ族が滅んだのは富に対する飽くなき欲望故であった。」
    english: 'Fantasy novel: ''The reason for the dwarves'' undoing was their untiring desire for wealth.'''
  - japanese: 手紙：「季節の変わり目故、くれぐれもご自愛くださいませ。」
    english: 'Letter: ''Since the seasons are changing, please take good care of yourself.'' (due to)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ゆえに
false_friends: []
