grammar_point: にわたって
jlpt: N2
meaning: Across, Throughout, Extends, Over (a period of time or range)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Partnered with thecase marking particleに, the う-Verb渡る 'to cross' in its て-form highlights a
  span of something in regard to breadth, size, or time. This structure is often translated as either
  'across (A)', 'throughout (A)', 'extending through (A)', or 'over the period of (A)'.Like other verb
  structures that pair with nouns, the standard form may also be used when paired with a second noun,
  in order to modify that noun.Coming from the meaning of渡る 'to cross', this grammar pattern always expresses
  that something is either happening or exists 'all across (A)', or 'from the start to the finish'. Additionally,に渡ってis
  considered quite formal, so will often be seen in articles or on the news.Caution - As渡る indicates a
  span of something that is being crossed, the 'span' must always be indicated clearly.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は脱獄後長年に渡って警察から身を隠し続けた。
    english: He continued to hide from the police for many years after his escape.
  - japanese: 15年に渡る戦争は、ついにその幕を閉じた。
    english: A war that has been taking place for over fifteen years has finally come to its end.
  - japanese: 今朝に渡って行われた会議がようやく終わった。
    english: The meeting that has been going on throughout the whole morning has finally ended.
  - japanese: 今晩に渡って落ち続けていたA社の株がやっと上がった。
    english: The stock of Company A has finally risen after going down throughout tonight.
  - japanese: 明日は北海道全域に渡って強い雪が降るでしょう。
    english: Tomorrow, heavy snow will fall all across Hokkaido.
  - japanese: C1道路は雪により5キロに渡って通行できません。迂回路を使用してください。
    english: The C1 is impassable over a range of 5 kilometers due to snow. Please use the detour.
  - japanese: 市役所は午後9時から翌午前6時に渡り閉館します。
    english: City Hall will be closed over a period that extends from 9 p.m until 6 a.m the next day.
  - japanese: 二か月に渡って開催された冬季オリンピックの閉会式が本日行われます。
    english: The closing ceremony for the winter Olympics, held over the span of two months, will be carried
      out today.
  - japanese: 長期に渡って利用してきたサービスが終了してしまう。
    english: Unfortunately the service we have come to use over a long period of time will end.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にわたって
false_friends:
  - term: にかけて
    meaning: Over (a period), From ~ until, Through
    kind: synonym
