grammar_point: 考えられない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Unthinkable, Inconceivable, Unimaginable, Cannot think
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 考えられないis the negative potential form of the る - Verb考える 'to consider'. It will regularly be used
  after theadverbial particleなど(なんか, orなんて), or any expression that nominalizes a phrase, like ということは.考えられないis
  regularly translated as '(A) is unimaginable', or '(A) is unthinkable', which is quite close to the
  literal meaning.CautionWhile考えられないrefers to the inability to think of a certain thing,考えない 'to not consider',
  or考えていない 'to not be considering' express something that the speaker has control over. Due to this, only考えられないmay
  be used when implying something that is unbelievable.
examples:
  - japanese: 20年前には携帯で映画見たりゲームなど出来るとは考えられなかったでしょう。
    english: It was probably unthinkable that you could watch movies and play video games on your phone
      20 years ago.
  - japanese: 人に手を出すなんて私には考えられない。
    english: It is unimaginable that I would raise my hand at a person.
  - japanese: あんな小さい人が相撲をやろうと思ったということは考えられない。
    english: It is unthinkable to imagine a person that small decided they wanted to do sumo.
  - japanese: 人違いだったことは考えられないか？
    english: Is it unthinkable that you misremembered the person?
  - japanese: 死んだ後のことなどほとんど考えない。
    english: I don't think about what happens after dying.
  - japanese: 結婚した後の事など考えていない。
    english: I haven't thought about what happens after marrying.
  - japanese: 妻と離婚することなど考えられない。
    english: It is unimaginable that I would get a divorce with my wife.
  - japanese: 友達との話：「子供がそんな難しい数学の問題を解くということは考えられない。」
    english: 'Chat between friends: ''It is unthinkable for a child to solve such a difficult mathematical
      problem.'''
  - japanese: ブログの投稿：「電子なしの生活は私には考えられない。」
    english: 'Blog post: ''Life without electronics is unimaginable for me.'' (unthinkable)'
  - japanese: 新聞：「靴を脱がずに家に上がることは、日本では考えられない行為ですが、アメリカでは普通です。」
    english: 'Newspaper: ''Entering a house without removing your shoes is an unthinkable act in Japan,
      but it is normal in the USA.'''
  - japanese: 友達との話：「まさかあんなに真面目な人が、物を盗むなんて考えられない。」
    english: 'Chat between friends: ''It is absolutely inconceivable that such a serious person would
      do something like stealing.'' (unthinkable)'
  - japanese: 友達との話：「昨日まで元気だったのに、急に亡くなるなんて考えられない。」
    english: 'Chat between friends: "Despite being healthy just yesterday, (he) suddenly died. It''s something
      unimaginable." [unthinkable]'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/考えられない
false_friends: []
