grammar_point: くる
jlpt: N5
meaning: To come
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Independent Word
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 動詞
  単語の種類: 自立語
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 来る is one of only two main verbs in Japanese that do not follow the standard rules of conjugation
  for Godan and Ichidan verbs. The other primary verb being する . 来る means 'to come', or 'to be coming'.来る
  will always have the particle に or へ attached to the location that someone 'will come', or 'has come'.The
  reason that 来る is called a か-column irregular conjugation verb in Japanese is because the る in 来る does
  not conjugate, but is dropped. This leaves the く being the part that conjugates. Because of this, 来る
  has qualities of both る-Verbs (the る being dropped), and う-Verbs (the remaining く changing depending
  on the conjugation). Here are some examples of how 来る changes.（き）た, （く）る, （こ）ない.来る will often be seen
  as 来 ている when someone has come to a place and remains there. This is due to ている meaning 'to exist in
  the state of an action', rather than being exactly the same as '(A)~ing' in English. Because of this,
  来 ている can mean either 'to be somewhere that one has come', or 'to be coming'.Sometimes the difference
  between these two will not be clear unless there is further context.Caution来 ている (for existing at a
  place) is only used for places that people 'temporarily' go, so will not be used when you are at your
  home/work.
examples:
  - japanese: トムはここにくる。
    english: Tom will come here.
  - japanese: バスがくる。
    english: The bus will come.
  - japanese: 彼はバスできます。
    english: He will come by bus.
  - japanese: 友達もきますか。
    english: Will your friend come too?
  - japanese: 明日きます。
    english: I will come tomorrow.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/くる
false_friends:
  - term: へいく
    meaning: To go to, To head toward
    kind: synonym
  - term: てくる
    meaning: To come to, To become, To continue, To be starting to, Has been ~ing
    kind: synonym
  - term: いらっしゃる
    meaning: To be (Honorific), To come (Honorific), To go (Honorific)
    kind: synonym
