grammar_point: っぱなし
jlpt: N3
meaning: Leaving something in a certain state, Left as is, Keep on -ing
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: っぱなしis asuffixthat originally comes from the う - Verb放す 'to let loose'. When attached to theconjunctive
  formof verbs, it is used to indicate that something has been 'left' in a certain state.っぱなしis almost
  exclusively used negatively.Fun FactAlthough放す means 'to let loose',っぱなしconveys a feeling that is closer
  to 'being unchecked'. This meansっぱなしcan be used to convey that 'the act of (A)' is continuing without
  anyone there to stop it, or that the 'state of (A)' is continuing without anyone there to stop it. Which
  meaning is conveyed will depend mostly on the (A) verb.
examples:
  - japanese: また電気点けっぱなしじゃん！何回言えば消してくれるの？
    english: You left the light on again! How many times do I have to tell you to turn it off?
  - japanese: 冷蔵庫を開けっ放しにしないで下さい。
    english: Please don't leave the refrigerator open.
  - japanese: 歯を磨いている間、水を出しっぱなしにしていたら、お母さんに怒られた。
    english: Because I left the water on while I was brushing my teeth, my mother scolded me.
  - japanese: 勝ちっぱなしだとつまらないね、たまには負けを味わいたい。
    english: Don't you think it is boring to keep winning? I want to taste defeat sometimes. (I want to
      lose sometimes)
  - japanese: 秋の間は窓を開けっぱなしにして寝ています。
    english: During autumn, I sleep with the windows left open.
  - japanese: 誰かがそのドアを開けっ放しにした。
    english: Someone left the door open.
  - japanese: ライトをつけっ放しにしないで。
    english: Don't leave the light on.
  - japanese: 渋滞のせいで、１０分間止まりっ放しだった。
    english: Because of the traffic, I was at a standstill for ten minutes.
  - japanese: 電話が鳴りっ放しだけど…大丈夫？
    english: Your phone keeps ringing... Is that not a problem?
  - japanese: 3時間も立ちっ放しで、足が棒になってしまいました。
    english: I kept standing for 3 hours, now my legs feel as heavy as lead.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/っぱなし
false_friends:
  - term: ままに (as desired)
    meaning: As is, While remaining, Left in a state
    kind: synonym
