grammar_point: ようだ
jlpt: N4
meaning: As if, Just like
meaning_warning: More formal than みたい
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In a similar way toみたい,ようだis used when making observations about something in Japanese. Thisauxiliary
  verbis used to express three primary things.たとえ - Using (A) as an example to highlight the way that
  (B) looks/is acting.推定- Using (A) as a reason for an assumption made about (B).例示- Presenting (A) as
  an example of what (B) is.ようだis usually based on direct information/experience, and shows that the speaker
  has high confidence in what they are saying. It may also frequently appear in its kanji form,様だ.ようだcan
  be used with any verb,い-Adjective,な-Adjective, or noun. However, it requires な before it when used withな-Adjectives,
  orのwhen used with nouns.Althoughようだandそうだare often used in similar situations,そうだshows that the speaker
  has a lot less confidence in their statement thanようだ. Because of this,ようだis a much better choice when
  stating things that are obvious/observable by anyone.Cautionようだis considerably more formal thanみたい,
  and is therefore less common in casual conversation.
examples:
  - japanese: ここに大きなビルが出来るようだ。
    english: It seems like a big building will be made here.
  - japanese: あそこのプールは深い様だ。
    english: It seems like the pool over there is deep.
  - japanese: 彼は明日のテストに自信があると皆に言っているが、本当は不安なようだ。
    english: He is telling everyone that he is confident about the test tomorrow, but it seems like he
      is actually worried.
  - japanese: ヨーダは宇宙人のようだ。
    english: Yoda appears to be an alien.
  - japanese: 彼はここに来ないようだ。
    english: It seems like he won't come here.
  - japanese: 今日の天気は台風のようだ。
    english: Today's weather looks like  a typhoon.
  - japanese: 彼の話し方は歌っているようだ。
    english: His way of speaking seems like singing.
  - japanese: ほとんど無くなっているようだ。
    english: It seems that most of it is gone.
  - japanese: あの人はお金を持っていないようだが、本当はお金持ち。
    english: That person seems like he doesn't have any money, but he really is rich.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ようだ
false_friends:
  - term: みたい
    meaning: Like, Similar to, Resembling
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようでは・ようじゃ
    meaning: If, If it is true that
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうに・そうな
    meaning: Seem, Look like, Sound
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように・ような
    meaning: As・like, Just like
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ①
    meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうだ
    meaning: I heard that, It is said that
    kind: synonym
  - term: にみえる
    meaning: To look, To seem, To appear
    kind: synonym
  - term: とみえる
    meaning: It seems that, It can be deduced, One can conclude that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ときいた
    meaning: I heard that
    kind: synonym
  - term: かのようだ
    meaning: As if, Just like
    kind: synonym
