grammar_point: よりしかたがない
jlpt: N2
meaning: There is no choice but, Can't be helped, Inevitable
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Often seen as a set phrase,よりしかたがないconsists of より, the noun仕方'way' or 'method', が and ない. When
  preceded by a verb in its dictionary form, it just conveys that 'there is no choice but (A)', or that
  '(A) cannot be helped'.Occasionally the が will be dropped, between仕方and ない.Keeping almost exactly the
  same style of translation is a similar pattern,より他にない. The only actual difference is that this structure
  expresses that there is no 'other' alternative, rather than being no 'method'. The noun他'other' and
  に will simply replace仕方'method' and が.As with仕方が, the に will often be dropped in他に.Bothよりしかたがないandよりほかにないhave
  a tendency to express some particular evaluation of (A) that cannot be helped or denied, or simply that
  'given the situation, (A) cannot be avoided'.
examples:
  - japanese: この建物はボロボロでいつ倒れてもおかしくないので、倉庫として使いたいなら立て直すより仕方がない。
    english: This building is in bad condition and could fall down at any time, so if I want to use it
      as a warehouse, I have no choice but to rebuild it.
  - japanese: 高速道路が通行止めになっている為、下道を使うより仕方がない。
    english: Since the expressway is closed, there is no choice but to take the normal road.
  - japanese: 生活をするにはお金が必要なので働くより仕方ない。
    english: I need money in order to live, so there is no choice but to work.
  - japanese: 自転車のチェーンとブレーキがぶっ壊れたので、捨てるより他にない。
    english: My bicycle chain and brakes are busted, so I have no choice but to throw them away.
  - japanese: 上司のパワハラのせいで病んできたので、精神科に行くより他にない。
    english: My mental health is not doing well because of my boss' power harassment, so I have no choice
      but to go to a therapist.
  - japanese: あんなひどい事を言ってしまったので、謝るより他ない。
    english: Because I said such a terrible thing, I have no choice but to apologize.
  - japanese: 税金は、高くとも納めるより仕方がない。
    english: We have no choice but to pay taxes, even if they are high.
  - japanese: 税金は、納めるより仕方のないものだ。
    english: It is a fact that there is no choice but to pay taxes.
  - japanese: 人生には好調な日もあれば、不調な日もある。したがって、不調の日は受け入れるより仕方がないと思う。
    english: In life, there are both good days and bad days. Therefore we have no choice but to accept
      the bad ones.
  - japanese: 親になると夜中赤ちゃんに起こされることに慣れるより仕方がない。
    english: If you become a parent, you have no choice but to get accustomed to being woken up in the
      middle of the night.
  - japanese: マラソン大会に出たいなら、地道にトレーニングを積むより仕方がない。
    english: If you want to enter a marathon, there is no choice but to steadily pile on the training.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/よりしかたがない
false_friends:
  - term: よりほかない
    meaning: To have no choice but, No other way than, Have to
    kind: synonym
  - term: しかない
    meaning: Have no choice but, Only, Just
    kind: synonym
