grammar_point: を通じて・を通して
jlpt: N2
meaning: Through, Via, Throughout
meaning_warning: Used when something has been done not directly, but by a proxy/some means/tool/etc.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: を通じてandを通してare two grammar patterns in Japanese that have very similar meanings to each other,
  and are used in many overlapping situations. Primarily, they can be thought of as meaning 'through (A),
  (B)', or 'via (A), (B)'. This 'through' may either indicate a method, or a location.通じる 'to flow', or
  'to go through' and通す 'to make a path', only differ in that the former is intransitive, while the latter
  is transitive. Because of this,通じる will be seen more often in regard to information or communication
  where (A) is the connection through which (B) occurs.通す on the other hand more often refers to direct
  locations through which something is transferred or relocated.As this expression begins with を, it will
  appear after nouns, before expressing in the (B) part of the sentence exactly what was done 'through'
  (A).Caution - The primary difference betweenを通じてandを通してlies in the intransitive and transitive nature
  of the verbs themselves. Due to this, things that are being done 'intentionally', or 'by use of (A)'
  will tend to useを通して.を通じてis more common when something is being done 'throughout (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: その事件はネットニュースを通じて知りました。
    english: I learned about that incident through online news.
  - japanese: 彼はアニメを通じて日本語を学んだそうだ。
    english: I heard that he learned Japanese through anime.
  - japanese: 語学留学を通して日本の文化などを学びました。
    english: I learned about Japanese culture and other aspects of Japan through language study.
  - japanese: 仕事を通して今の妻と出会いました。
    english: I met my current wife through work.
  - japanese: ロシアには年間を通じて寒い村があるらしい。
    english: I heard that there is a town in Russia that is cold throughout the year. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 事故にあった際には弁護士を通じて相手に連絡をするようにしてください。
    english: ''
  - japanese: 事故にあった際には弁護士を通して相手に連絡をするようにしてください。
    english: If you are involved in an accident, you should contact the other party through your attorney.
      (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: ロシアには年間を通して寒い村があるらしい。
    english: I heard that there is a town in Russia that is cold throughout the year. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 今の奥さんには友達を通じて出会った。
    english: I met my current wife through a friend.
  - japanese: このプロジェクトを通じて多くのことを学んだ。
    english: I have learned a lot through participating in this project.
  - japanese: 親と弁護士だけを通じて連絡できることになった。親が私のことを憎んでいる。
    english: I ended up being able to communicate with my parents only via the lawyer. My parents hate
      me.
  - japanese: 演劇を通じてコミュニケーション能力が向上した。
    english: Through the theatrical play, my communication ability improved.
  - japanese: オルガンを通して練習することの大切さを学んだ。
    english: Through the organ, I learned the importance of practice.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/を通じて-を通して
false_friends: []
