grammar_point: 思うように
jlpt: N2
meaning: As one hopes, As desired, As one thought
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 思うようにis a common sentence pattern in Japanese that is used for illustrating when something either
  does or does not happen in the way that one had thought. This phrase may be interpreted as 'as one hopes',
  'as desired', or 'as one thought'.思うようにis simply a combination of the う-Verb思う and the conjunctive form
  of theauxiliary verbようだ, ように.Typical sentence structures that use this pattern will start with an (A)
  phrase highlighting the 'expectation', be followed by思うように, then finished with a (B) phrase indicating
  the outcome. When (B) is a simple noun,様な will be used instead.As the (B) part of思うようにsentences will
  contain the information about whether the 'expectation' of (A) either was or was not met, this phrase
  may be used either positively or negatively to show that something did not meet, met, or even exceeded
  that expectation.
examples:
  - japanese: 最近仕事が思うように行かなくてストレスが溜まってきてるんだよ。
    english: Recently, work has not been going as well as I hoped, so I am starting to get stressed out.
  - japanese: 毎日漢字を練習しているが思うように上達しない。
    english: I am practicing kanji every day, but I am not making as much progress as I thought.
  - japanese: 事故に遭ってから指が思うように動かなくなった。
    english: Since the accident, my fingers have become unable to move as I had thought.
  - japanese: ケーキ屋みたいなお菓子が思うように作れなかった。
    english: Making sweets like they do at the pastry shop didn't go as I had hoped it would.
  - japanese: 生け花を綺麗にすることが難しくて、思うようにできなかった。
    english: Doing flower arrangement was difficult and I wasn't able to do it as I had hoped.
  - japanese: 勉強が思うようにできず、日本語が上達しなかった。
    english: Unable to study as I had hoped, my Japanese hasn't improved.
  - japanese: 思うように回転が掛けられるように、何度も卓球の練習をしました。
    english: I practiced table tennis many times to be able to put a spin on the ball as I desired.
  - japanese: この車は思うように加速しないからイライラする。
    english: It is irritating that this car doesn't accelerate like I hoped it would.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/思うように
false_friends: []
