grammar_point: はたして
jlpt: N2
meaning: Wonder if ~ (really)?, Wonder how ~ (actually)?, Sure enough, As expected
meaning_warning: 果たして+ Phrase → Mostly found in literature
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 果たして, being the て-form of the う-Verb果たす 'to fulfill', or 'to come to fruition', is an expression
  that is used adverbially to strengthen phrases of speculation. It may be translated as 'I wonder if
  (A)', 'how actually (A)', or 'how really (A)'.果たしてwill often be seen paired with other structures that
  indicate speculation, such as だろうか, でしょうか, かな, or かしら; and can be thought of as just emphasizing them
  further.As this grammar point will be used adverbially, it will primarily appear at the beginning of
  sentences.In sentences that do not include other speculative grammar patterns such as だろうか,果たしてwill
  regularly be translated as 'sure enough', or 'as expected'.Fun-fact - Coming from the base meaning of果たす
  'to come to fruition',果たしてcan be thought of as similar to 'in the end' in almost all cases, as it merely
  expresses the speakers thought process about 'what will' or 'what has' happened 'in the end'.If using
  this translation to memorize果たして, it should also be noted that the nuance of what happens 'in the end'
  is almost always something that the speaker either expected, or assumed would happen in the first place.
examples:
  - japanese: 果たして彼が言っていることは本当なのだろうか。
    english: I wonder if what he is saying is the truth.
  - japanese: 果たして、あのやり方で本当に成功するのでしょうか。
    english: I wonder if that approach will really work.
  - japanese: 彼は取引先の信頼を失う事をしてしまった。果たして、彼はクビになった。
    english: He did something to lose the trust of his clients. As expected he was fired.
  - japanese: 彼女は自分の意見を彼に押し付けようとしたが、果たして彼は自分の意見を変えなかった。
    english: She tried to push her opinions onto him, but as expected he did not change his.
  - japanese: 大学院に進学するのは果たして私にメリットがあるのでしょうか？
    english: I wonder if going on to graduate school will actually benefit me in the end.
  - japanese: 彼以外誰も仕事に来なかったため、果たして彼が全員の仕事をすることになった。
    english: Since no one came to work except him, he ended up having to do everyone's job in the end
      as expected.
  - japanese: 迷子：「果たしてどうやって帰るの？」
    english: 'Lost child: ''I wonder how will I actually get back home?'''
  - japanese: 最近、「スポーツは健康に等しい」とスローガンをよく耳にする。果たしてそれは本当なのでしょうか。
    english: Lately, I often hear the slogan 'Sport is equal to health'. I wonder if that is really the
      case?
  - japanese: ある人は地球が平らであると証明しようとしたが、果たして失敗した。
    english: A certain person tried to prove that the Earth was flat, however, just as expected that person
      failed to do so.
  - japanese: A：「バンジージャンプしてみたいなぁ〜。」 B：「果たしてできるかしら？」
    english: 'A: ''I want to try bungee jumping.'' B: ''I wonder if you can actually do it?'''
  - japanese: 大学を中退するのは果たして賢明な行動でしょうか。
    english: I wonder if dropping out of university is really a wise thing to do?
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/はたして
false_friends:
  - term: さすが
    meaning: as one would expect, only natural, that is just like..., even
    kind: synonym
  - term: かな
    meaning: I wonder
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～のだろうか
    meaning: I wonder...
    kind: synonym
