grammar_point: ついでに
jlpt: N3
meaning: While you are at it, On the occasion
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 序に is anadverbin Japanese that is used in a similar way to 'while you're at it', or 'on the occasion
  of (A)' in English.序itself is a noun that means 'precedence' (in terms of being the first thing to happen).
  Due to this, the literal meaning of序に may be thought of as 'with (A) as the precedence, (B)'.序に is commonly
  used with verbs, or nouns. In the case of nouns, it will need to be preceded by thecase marking particleの.Fun
  FactJust like 'precedence' in English,序に implies that (A) is the instigator for (B). Because of this,序に
  is a good way to convey that something is not urgent, but, if (A) is happening, it is the perfect chance
  to do (B) as well.Caution序に is more formal than間にor時に, so has more of a tendency to be used for 'one-off'
  things, rather than regular occurrences. Despite this, it still may be used to describe regular occurrences
  at times, especially when speaking formally or politely, such as to a senpai.
examples:
  - japanese: 買い物に行くついでに、郵便局に行ってこの荷物を出しておいてくれる？
    english: Can you bring these packages to the post office while you go shopping?
  - japanese: 散歩のついでに寄って行ってください。
    english: Please come visit while you are on a walk.
  - japanese: お母さんの所にテレビを返しに行くのでしょう？序にこの、私が作った梅酒を持って行って。
    english: You are going to go to your mothers place to give back the TV you borrowed, right? While
      you're at it, can you take the Umeshu I made?
  - japanese: 友達を家に送ったついでに、床屋に行った。
    english: On the way back from driving my friend home, I went to the barber. (One-off occurrence)
  - japanese: 旦那はいつも、私が寝てる間に帰ってくる。
    english: My husband always comes back while I am sleeping. (Regular occurrence)
  - japanese: 私は晴れているときに出かける。
    english: I go out when it is sunny. (Regular occurrence)
  - japanese: 東京に行った序でに、ディズニーランドへ行った。
    english: While I was in Tokyo, I went to Disneyland.
  - japanese: 散歩の序でに、郵便局に寄って切手を買いました。
    english: I was taking a walk and, while I was at it, I stopped by the post office and bought stamps.
  - japanese: 毎日仕事から帰る序でに、コンビニでコーヒーを買う。
    english: While coming home from work, I always get a coffee at the convenience store. (while I am
      at it)
  - japanese: 序でに君の車も洗ってあげようか？
    english: While I am at it, do you want me to wash your car too?
  - japanese: お風呂に入る序でに、お風呂掃除もしてしまおう。
    english: While I am in the bath, I will clean it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ついでに
false_friends:
  - term: 際に
    meaning: When, At the time of, In case of, On the occasion of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ながら
    meaning: While ~ing, During, As
    kind: synonym
  - term: ているところだ
    meaning: In the process of doing ~ right now/at this moment
    kind: synonym
  - term: の間に
    meaning: While, During, Between, Period
    kind: synonym
  - term: うちに
    meaning: While, During
    kind: synonym
  - term: つつ
    meaning: While, And
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～ところに・～ところへ
    meaning: At the time, When, While, Timing
    kind: synonym
  - term: ているあいだに
    meaning: While, During the time that ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: がけに
    meaning: On the way to, As you go
    kind: synonym
  - term: にあたり・にあたって
    meaning: When, When doing something, On the occasion, At the time
    kind: synonym
  - term: がてら
    meaning: On the occasion of, While … as well, While …  (one is) at it, During, Along the way
    kind: synonym
