grammar_point: にひきかえ
jlpt: N1
meaning: In stark contrast, In comparison, On the other hand, While, In sharp contrast
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: に引き換えis a grammar pattern that is used for making contrasts between things, and will be translated
  as ‘in comparison to (A), (B)’, or ‘in stark contrast to (A), (B)’. The literal translation is ‘pulling
  back and switching away from (A), (B)’. This ‘switching away from’ portion may be used as a reminder
  of the large size of the difference that this grammar pattern usually indicates.に引き換えis a combination
  of thecase-marking particleに, theconjunctive formof the う-Verb引く ‘to pull’,引き, and theconjunctive formof
  the る-Verb換える ‘to switch between’, or ‘to interchange’,換え.に引き換えmay follow almost any type of word, but
  will require a の to precede it before い-Adjectives or verbs, and なの to precede it before な-Adjectives.(A)
  and (B) will always be two opposite ends of some kind of spectrum, where one is considered to be good,
  while the other is regarded as bad based on the subjective opinion of the speaker.Additionally, それにひきかえ
  may be used to begin sentences where the comparison is being made to a previous statement.CautionBoth
  (A) and (B) will be facts that are plainly observable or measurable. Due to this,に引き換えwill not be used
  in sentences that make assumptions or guesses.
examples:
  - japanese: 周りの人たちはどんどん就職していっているのに引き換え、俺はまだ面接さえしていない。
    english: In stark contrast to the people around me, who are getting jobs, I haven’t even gone to an
      interview.
  - japanese: うちの娘は頭がいいのに引き換え、うちの長男はゲームばかりして全然勉強をしようともしない。
    english: In stark contrast to my daughter, who is smart, all my eldest son wants to do is play videogames
      and won’t even try to study.
  - japanese: 親戚の全員が裕福なのに引き換え、なぜか私の家族だけが貧乏。
    english: In stark contrast to all my relatives, who are wealthy, my family is poor for some reason.
  - japanese: 去年の夏に引き換え、今年の夏はえげつなく暑い。
    english: In stark contrast to summer last year, summer this year is extremely hot.
  - japanese: 周りの子たちを見てみなさいよ！みんな来年から大学よ！それに引き換え、あんたったら。。。
    english: Look at the kids around you! They are all going to college starting next year! In stark contrast
      to that you…
  - japanese: 今は寒いのに引き換え、昼になったら暖かくなるかもしれない。
    english: In stark contrast to it being cold right now, it would probably get warmer at noon. (Unnatural
      Japanese)
  - japanese: 母親の友達の息子さんは、弁護士として立派に働いているのにひきかえ、僕は・・・（まだフリーターだ）。
    english: In stark contrast to my mother's friend's son, who is working prominently as a lawyer, I
      am… (still a permanent part-timer)
  - japanese: 姉は積極的で活発な性格にひきかえ、弟の健太郎はとても無気力だ。
    english: In stark contrast to the elder sister's lively personality, the younger brother, Kentaro,
      is very apathetic.
  - japanese: 兄は優秀な成績をおさめている。それにひきかえ妹の方は遊んでばかりだ。
    english: The elder brother has excellent grades. In stark contrast to that, the younger sister is
      just mucking around.
  - japanese: 前回のテストにひきかえ今回のテストは難しい。
    english: In stark contrast to the previous test, this one is hard.
  - japanese: 隣の家の猫は痩せていて頭がいいのにひきかえうちの猫はぐうたらしてばかりだなあ。
    english: In stark contrast to the neighbor's cat, which is skinny and smart, our cat is just loafing
      around.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にひきかえ
false_friends: []
