grammar_point: と同じくらい
jlpt: N3
meaning: About the same as, About as, No less
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As a combination of thecase marking particleと, thenoun同じ 'the same', and theadverbial particleくらい.
  と同じくらい is an expression used to highlight that something is 'about the same as (A)'.To use と同じくらい, attach
  it to the end of a noun that you want to highlight as being the prime example, with whatever is comparable
  to it coming later in the sentence, or directly attached through thecase marking particleの.If you want
  to express that an action is being performed in 'almost the same way' as (A),にmay replace の, after くらい.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼のパソコンはプリンターと同じぐらい大きい。
    english: His computer is about as big as his printer.
  - japanese: 先生、昨日と同じぐらい痛いです。
    english: Doctor, it hurts about the same as yesterday.
  - japanese: あの人は車と同じぐらいのスピードで走れる。
    english: He can run at about the same speed as a car.
  - japanese: 今飼っている犬と同じぐらいのサイズのワンチャンが欲しいです。
    english: I want a puppy that is about the same size as the one I have now.
  - japanese: 値段が同じぐらいになるのなら、もっといいのを買います。
    english: If the price is going to be about the same, I will buy the better one.
  - japanese: あの女の人はお母さんと同じぐらいに見えたけど、年齢を聞いたらお祖母ちゃんと同い年だった。
    english: That lady looked about the same age as my mother, but when I asked her her, she was the same
      age as my grandma.
  - japanese: このレシピは簡単そうです。難易度は炒り卵と同じぐらいです。
    english: This recipe seems easy. The degree of difficulty is about the same as scrambled eggs.
  - japanese: うちのぽちはこの箱と同じくらいの大きさだ。
    english: Our Pochi is about the same size as this box.
  - japanese: 店員さん：「申し訳ありませんが、このスマホを修復する値段は、新しいモデルを買うのと同じくらいになりますので、新しいものを、ご購入なさった方がお得ですよ。」
    english: Shop clerk：「I am awfully sorry, but the cost of repairing this smartphone is about the same
      as buying a new device, therefore buying a new device would be more economical.」
  - japanese: いつか、トモキと同じくらいの身長になりたいな。
    english: One day, I want to be about the same height as Tomoki.
  - japanese: この自転車はカーボンファイバーからできているので、ラップトップと同じぐらいの重さです。
    english: This bike is made from carbon fiber, so it weighs about the same as a laptop.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/と同じくらい
false_friends: []
