grammar_point: かねない
jlpt: N2
meaning: Might, Could be, Capable of, Possible
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: The negative form of the る-Verb兼ねる'to spread across' (usually 2 different activities or thought
  processes) is a grammar pattern that indicates a possibility of (A) happening, especially when it is
  something that the speaker themselves cannot control.兼ねないis often translated as 'might (A)', 'capable
  of (A)', or '(A) is a possibility'.This structure will be seen connected to the ます-stem of verbs, or
  after nouns followed by に. Both the kanji and non-kanji forms may be used.It is quite common to see兼ねないcome
  after conditional phrases that include と, ば, たら, でも, and similar structures. This indicates that 'if
  (A) were to happen, (B) may also occur'.Caution - While this grammar structure is most often used to
  highlight negative outcomes, it may also be used to indicate or desire or wish sarcastically.Fun-fact
  - As兼ねる means 'to spread across', in the negative, this expression can be thought of as similar to 'to
  not be a stretch' in English. It just indicates the action of (A) would not be a stretch of the ability
  or capacity of whoever or whatever is being discussed.
examples:
  - japanese: それは命を落としかねない感染症らしい。
    english: Apparently that is an infectious disease that could lead to death.
  - japanese: 地震の後には津波が起こりかねないので、出来るだけ早く避難しましょう。
    english: A tsunami might follow an earthquake so try to evacuate as soon as possible.
  - japanese: ベッドでの喫煙は火災になりかねないのでご遠慮ください。
    english: Please refrain from smoking on the bed as it might cause a fire.
  - japanese: 仕事のやりすぎは、鬱の原因になりかねない。
    english: Working too much could be a cause of depression.
  - japanese: 操作を間違えれば怪我人が出かねない。
    english: If you operate it wrong, it could cause injuries.
  - japanese: どんなに注意をしていても、事故は起こりかねない。
    english: No matter how careful you are, accidents might happen.
  - japanese: ちゃんと毎日勉強すれば、来週のテストは合格できかねない。
    english: If I study everyday, I might do well on the test next week.
  - japanese: 彼女はどんな病気でも治しかねない。
    english: It wouldn't be a stretch to say that she can cure any disease.
  - japanese: 賞味期限切れの食品は、下痢の原因になり兼ねない。
    english: Expired food could be a cause of diarrhea.
  - japanese: この犬に噛まれたら、大怪我をしかねない。
    english: If his dog bites you, it is capable of causing serious injury.
  - japanese: この事をそのままにしていたら、摩擦をうみ兼ねない。
    english: If you leave it at that, it might cause conflict.
  - japanese: あの財閥は、目的を達するためなら他人などかまわず何でもやり兼ねない。
    english: That firm is quite capable of doing anything to reach their goals without any regard to other
      people.
  - japanese: この書類を開示されてはスキャンダルがおき兼ねないから、処分する必要があります。
    english: If those documents are disclosed, it might cause a scandal, so it is necessary to get rid
      of them.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かねない
false_friends:
  - term: かねる
    meaning: Cannot, Be unable to, Hard to, Hesitant to
    kind: antonym
  - term: 恐れがある
    meaning: There is a risk or fear that, Be in danger of, Possibility of
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくはない
    meaning: It's not that…, Kind of, might, Slightly, Somewhat, In some respects
    kind: synonym
