grammar_point: の至り
jlpt: N1
meaning: Utmost, Height of, Extreme, Heartiest, Such a, Very, really, Completely, Deeply
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: の至りis a set, formal expression used to highlight that (A) is the highest level of something,
  and will often be used positively, although not exclusively. It is a combination of the case-marking
  particle の, and the noun至り 'pinnacle', or 'climax'.Common translations include 'the utmost (A)', or
  'the extreme of (A). To use this structure, attach it to the end of a noun, where that noun is the 'limit'
  for whatever is being expressed.(A) is usually some emotion that can be experienced to a high degree
  when confronted with certain situations such as光栄'honor',赤面'embarrassment',感謝'gratefulness',恐縮'obligation',
  etc.Fun Fact若気の至りis a set expression that is used to indicate some blunder made on a count of being
  young and not thinking things through thoroughly.若気is a noun that roughly translates as 'youthful impetuousness'.
examples:
  - japanese: ここ4年間色々と教えていただき、恐縮の至りです。
    english: I am extremely grateful for the many things you have taught me over the last four years.
  - japanese: このような大切な式に、こんな私を招待してくださったことは光栄の至りです。
    english: I am extremely honored that you invited me to such an important ceremony.
  - japanese: 色々とアドバイスをしていただいて、感謝の至りです。
    english: I am extremely grateful for all the advice you have given me.
  - japanese: 大学生の頃は若気の至りでたくさん悪いことをしてしまった。
    english: I did a lot of bad things when I was in college, due to an extreme moment of youthful indiscretion.
  - japanese: 演説：「特別賞を受賞することになり、光栄 の至りです。」
    english: 'Speech: ''Receiving the special reward is an extreme honor.'''
  - japanese: 「このような小さな誤りに気づくのに数日もかかるとは、赤面 の至りです。」
    english: '''I am extremely ashamed that it took a few days to notice such a simple mistake.'''
  - japanese: 演説：「たいそうな品をいただき、恐縮 の至りです。」
    english: 'Speech: ''We are extremely grateful for your generous gift.'''
  - japanese: インタビュー：「ファンや映画評論家の皆さまから肯定的なレビューをいただき、感激 の至りです」
    english: 'Interview: ''We are extremely moved by the positive reviews we have received from fans and
      film critics.'''
  - japanese: 伝記：「若気 の至りで、給料の良い仕事を辞めて独立開業した。」
    english: 'Biography: ''Due to an extreme moment of youthful indiscretion, I had quit a well-paid job
      and started an independent business.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/の至り
false_friends: []
