grammar_point: ことに
jlpt: N3
meaning: Extremely, Especially, To my ...
meaning_warning: ことに only carries this meaning with words that describe 'feelings'
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When 事 'thing' is combined with the case-marking particle に following a statement, it highlights
  that something is of a 'great extent'. Common translations include 'particularly', 'especially', or
  'to my (A)'. This grammar pattern almost always describes some kind of feeling or emotion.ことに is regularly
  seen after verbs, い or な-Adjectives .In most situations, '(A) ことに (B)' can be translated quite literally
  as 'to a particularly (A) extent, (B)'.Fun FactA very common expression 幸いなことに uses this particular
  grammar structure as a set phrase, and is often translated simply as 'fortunately', or 'luckily'.Fun
  Factことに may sometimes be seen before descriptions rather than following them. In these cases, it comes
  from the kanji 殊 , and is being used adverbially in the same was as 特 に to mean 'particularly' or 'especially'.
examples:
  - japanese: 幸いなことに、近所の人が私の猫を見つけて家まで届けてくれた。
    english: Fortunately, my neighbor found our cat for us, and brought her home.
  - japanese: 幸せな事に、来年結婚します。
    english: I am extremely happy about getting married next year.
  - japanese: 嬉しい事に日本語能力試験に合格しました。
    english: I am especially happy about passing the JLPT.
  - japanese: 驚いた事に、六ヶ月で赤ちゃんが初めて歩いた。
    english: To our extreme surprise, the six month old baby took its first steps.
  - japanese: 不幸な事に、彼は奥さんがなくなり失意のあまり、辞職した。
    english: Sadly, he was so heartbroken after his wife's death that he resigned.
  - japanese: 不思議な事に、最近物事がすべてうまくいく。
    english: By some extreme oddity, lately everything seems to be going well.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことに
false_friends:
  - term: そうにない
    meaning: Unlikely to, Showing no signs of
    kind: antonym
  - term: てしょうがない
    meaning: Extremely, Very, Really, It can't be helped
    kind: synonym
  - term: てたまらない
    meaning: Can't help but want to, Very, Extremely
    kind: synonym
  - term: てならない
    meaning: Very, Extremely, Can't help but do
    kind: synonym
  - term: 幸い・幸いなことに
    meaning: Luckily, Fortunately
    kind: synonym
