grammar_point: ったらない・といったらない
jlpt: N1
meaning: Cannot tell, describe, say or express how, Words cannot express, Too … for words, Extremely
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: といったらないis a casual expression used when something is at a level such that not even (A) is sufficient
  to describe it. It is usually translated as 'there are no words to express (A)', or 'too (A) for words'.
  This structure is a combination of the case-marking particle と, theconjunction particleたら 'when', or
  'if', and the い-Adjective ない. It may be used in either positive or negative contexts.といったらない, or the
  shortened formったらないmay appear after adjectives or nouns in theirstandard forms.The ない in this grammar
  pattern is commonly thought to be an abbreviation of ありはしない, or ありゃしない, theconjunctive formof the う-Verb
  ある combined with thecase marking particleは, and the negated form of する, しない. In this way, a more literal
  meaning can be thought of as 'if one were to say (A), it's not possible'.CautionAs this expression highlights
  an extreme amount, い-Adjectives will often be used with the さsuffixadded, specifically to indicate amount.
examples:
  - japanese: 隣の人の犬は朝からうるさいといったらない。
    english: I can't describe to you how loud my neighbor's dog is in the morning.
  - japanese: 息子を家で留守番させるのは心配といったらない。
    english: I can't tell you how worried I am to let my son stay at home alone.
  - japanese: プロジェクトを終わらせた後の達成感ったらない。
    english: I can't describe the feeling of accomplishment after finishing a project.
  - japanese: あの子の運転は危ないといったらありゃしないから、あの子と出かける時には運転させないようにしている。
    english: I can't describe how bad her driving is. I always make sure not to let her drive when we
      go somewhere.
  - japanese: 田舎では車がないとどこにもいけないから、不便といったらありゃしない。
    english: I can't describe to you how inconvenient the countryside is. You can't go anywhere without
      a car.
  - japanese: 彼女は私の話を全然聞いてくれない。むかつくといったらありゃしない。
    english: She does not listen to a word I say. I can't describe to you how annoyed I am.
  - japanese: あの人の優しさと言ったらありゃしない。
    english: I can't describe how nice he is.
  - japanese: 「校長と鹿との戦いを見たときの驚きといったらないよ。」
    english: '''I can''t describe my surprise at seeing a fight between the principal and a deer.'''
  - japanese: 「車のタイヤが盗まれた。本当に腹が立つったらない。」
    english: '''My car tires have been stolen. I can''t tell you how angry I am!'''
  - japanese: A：「歯を引っこ抜くのはどうだった？」B：「あの痛みといったらないわよ、本気で死ぬかと思ったもの。」
    english: 'A: ''How was the tooth extraction?''B: ''I can''t tell you how painful it is! I really thought
      I was going to die.'''
  - japanese: 数年が経ったのにまだあの日の日没を覚えている。その景色の美しさと言ったらなかった。
    english: Even though years have passed, I can still remember the sunset that day. I couldn't describe
      the beauty of the scene in words.
  - japanese: メークした時の星野の変わり様と言ったらなかった。まるで別人のようだった。
    english: I couldn't describe how much Hoshino has changed when she put on the makeup. She was like
      a different person.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ったらない・といったらない
false_friends: []
