grammar_point: ようでは・ようじゃ
jlpt: N2
meaning: It seems that, It appears that, It looks like
meaning_warning: ようじゃ is more casual.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ようではis a combination of theauxiliary verb様'manner', or 'seeming', and では, a conjunction that
  is frequently used as an abbreviation of それなら in expressing 'if'. Due to this,ようではitself often has the
  meaning of 'if', with extra focus on the fact that (A) is something unconfirmed, or only being guessed
  at. This may be translated as 'if it is the case that (A)', or 'if that which seems to be (A) is true'.In
  most cases,ようではwill be used to make an evaluation that if (A) is true, then some particular negative
  result will arise from it.ようではwill primarily appear after verbs in any of their standard forms.ようではputs
  extra focus on the appearance or condition of (A), based on what is observable by the speaker. In this
  way, it is often the speaker's subjective (negative) opinion about what they perceive to be true.
examples:
  - japanese: こんな毎日同じミスをするようでは、いつまで経っても店長にはなれませんよ。
    english: If you keep making the same mistake everyday, you will never be able to become a manager.
  - japanese: これらの文法が分からないようでは、N2に合格することはできません。
    english: If you do not understand these grammars, you will not be able to pass N2.
  - japanese: これぐらいの高さで怖がっているようでは消防士にはなれませんよ。
    english: You can't become a firefighter if you're afraid of heights like this.
  - japanese: 赤ん坊のおむつを替えられないようでは、とてもイクメン（子育てする男性）とは呼べない。
    english: If he can't change a baby's diapers, he can't be called a man who can raise a child. (...it
      appears that...)
  - japanese: 人の成功を羨んでいるようでは、自分の成功にはつながらない。
    english: If you envy other people's achievements, it won't lead to your own achievements. (...it appears
      that...)
  - japanese: この程度の距離で音を上げているようでは、本格的な登山に挑戦することなどできない。
    english: If you are going to give up at this distance, you won't be able to take on the challenge
      of real mountain climbing. (...it appears that...)
  - japanese: こんなに日時を間違えるようでは、仕事なんてできないよ。
    english: If you can make these kinds of mistakes about the time and date, you can't do your job. (...it
      appears that...)
  - japanese: 勉強の日課を守れないようでは、試験に受からないと思います。
    english: If you can't keep up with your daily study routine, I don't think you can pass the test.
      (...it appears that...)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ようでは-ようじゃ
false_friends:
  - term: ては
    meaning: If, With, Since, Because
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようだ
    meaning: It seems that, It appears that, It looks like
    kind: synonym
