grammar_point: なり
jlpt: N1
meaning: As soon as, The moment, When
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: なりis an old-fashioned particle in Japanese that has several different uses. One of those uses
  is to convey the meaning of 'as soon as (A), (B)', or 'the moment of (A), (B)'. This structure will
  follow thedictionary formof verbs and is classified as aconjunction particle.(B) is usually something
  that is surprising, and brought about by a strong sense of will or emotion. Additionally,なりis almost
  always used in relation to other people, rather than oneself.Fun FactDespite appearing to be a conjugation
  of the う-Verb なる 'to become' at first glance,なりis actually one of the readings of形, meaning 'shape',
  and refers to the overall situation of (A) in a similar way to ところ.
examples:
  - japanese: 息子が家に上がるなりトイレへと駆け込んだ。
    english: My son ran to the toilet as soon as he entered the house.
  - japanese: ママ友が私の家に入るなり、冷蔵庫の中を物色し始めた。
    english: As soon as my mom-friend came into my house, she started to go through my refrigerator.
  - japanese: 彼は机に座るなりすぐスマホをいじり始めたから注意した。
    english: I warned him because he started playing on his phone as soon as he sat down.
  - japanese: 踊りを止めるなり、彼女が急にキスしてくれたんだ。気持ちいい。
    english: As soon as I stopped dancing, she suddenly kissed me. I feel great.
  - japanese: 父が出張から帰るなり母は泣きだした。
    english: The moment father returned home from a business trip, mother started crying.
  - japanese: 故郷に帰るなり灰燼に帰した家を見て、驚き、悲しんだ。
    english: The moment I returned to my home town, I saw my house reduced to ashes. I was shocked and
      saddened.
  - japanese: 実家のお母さんからの電報が来るなり、山田さんは青ざめた。
    english: As soon as the telegram from his mother came, Yamada became pale.
  - japanese: うちの奥さんは毎日起きるなりスマホで電子メールを見ている。
    english: As soon as my wife wakes up, she checks mail on her smartphone.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なり
false_friends:
  - term: と同時に
    meaning: At the same time as, The instant, The moment, As well as
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとたんに
    meaning: The instant or moment, As soon as, Just as
    kind: synonym
  - term: 次第
    meaning: As soon as
    kind: synonym
  - term: かと思ったら・かと思うと
    meaning: Then again, Just when I thought, No sooner than
    kind: synonym
