grammar_point: たい
jlpt: N5
meaning: Want to do
meaning_warning: The object of desire can take either the を or が particle
details:
  Part of Speech: Dependent Word
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 助動詞
  単語の種類: 付属語
  使用域: 一般
writeup: たい is an auxiliary verb that is used to express things that you would like to do (want). To use
  たい , it needs to be added to the same conjugation base form of a verb that ます would be attached to.When
  using たい , the thing that is 'wanted' can either be marked with を , or が . The difference in nuance
  is that something marked with が is considered to be wanted more. たい is conjugated in the same way as
  い-Adjectives , meaning that the negative , past , or past-negative forms may also be used.たい is only
  used for expressing things that 'you' want, or repeating information/asking questions about what other
  people want. It may not be used to make guesses about what other people 'may' want, unless asking them
  directly.Cautionたい is not used to tell other people that you want them to do something. This is done
  with ～てほしい .Cautionたい is not usually used when giving invitations (asking someone if they want to do
  something with you). In these cases ～ませんか is far more natural.
examples:
  - japanese: あなたはご飯を作りたい。
    english: As for you, I want to make dinner. (This can never mean 'I want you to make dinner for me',
      and is a fairly unnatural sentence)
  - japanese: アカネも行きたい？
    english: Akane, do you want to go too? (Sounds more like a question than an invitation)
  - japanese: 日本に行きたい。
    english: I want to go to Japan.
  - japanese: 来年日本に行きたい。
    english: Next year, I want to go to Japan.
  - japanese: 早く食べたい。
    english: I want to eat soon.
  - japanese: サッカーをしたいです。
    english: I want to play soccer.
  - japanese: 文法を勉強したいです。
    english: I want to study grammar.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たい
false_friends:
  - term: てほしい
    meaning: I want you to
    kind: synonym
  - term: がほしい
    meaning: To want something, To be in need of
    kind: synonym
  - term: たがる
    meaning: To want to (Third person)
    kind: synonym
  - term: がる
    meaning: To feel, To think, To act as if, To want, To desire
    kind: synonym
