grammar_point: だに + しない
jlpt: N1
meaning: Not even, Not at all, Never could have
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: だにis anadverbial particlethat shares a similar meaning to さえ and すら 'even', but is more commonly
  found in classical literature. It will be paired with negative structures and presents 'minimum' or
  'light' examples to which (A) does not apply, and therefore obviously also does not apply to anything
  greater than (A). It will be translated as 'not even (A), so not (B)', or 'not (B) at all'.だにwill be
  seen followingnounsor noun-phrases.Althoughだにoften appears when the (B) part of a sentence is negative,だにitself
  is not limited to being used this way. When following verbs, and the (B) phrase is not negative,だにsimply
  means 'just'. It is best to keep this in mind, as the core meaning of thisadverbial particlewill always
  be to mark the word or phrase before it as an extremely small amount or lower limit.Cautionだにis only
  used in a very limited set of expressions in modern Japanese. Some example of these are夢にだに'even in
  a dream',想像するだに'even in my imagination',考えるだに'even to consider',聞くだに'even hearing',微動だに'even a quiver'.
examples:
  - japanese: アメリカでこんな大きい地震が来るとは誰も予想だにしなかった。
    english: No one could have expected such a big earthquake to happen in the United States.
  - japanese: 彼が彼女と別れるなんて想像だにしなかったよ。
    english: I would have never imagined he would leave her.
  - japanese: まさかこの年になって子供を授かるなんて思いだにしていなかった。
    english: I would have never thought I would have a child at this age.
  - japanese: 小説：たかぎさん「にしかたさんのことが大好きよ。」たかぎの口からは想像だにしていなかった言葉がいきなり飛び出してきた。
    english: 'Novel, Takagi-san: ''I love you, Nishikata-san.''The words I never could have imagined suddenly
      came out of Takagi''s mouth.'
  - japanese: アニメのプロローグ、語り手「あのとき、俺はあんな悲劇が待ち受けていたなんて、夢にだに思わなかった。」
    english: 'Anime prologue, narrator: ''Back then, I couldn''t have even dreamed that such a tragedy
      lay ahead.'''
  - japanese: 小説：「彼女はソファーに座ったままで、まるで本物の人形のように微動だにしない。」
    english: 'Novel: ''She remained seated on the sofa, just like a doll, not even moving an inch.'''
  - japanese: 記事：「ビットコインがこれほどになるとは２００９年始めには誰も予想だにしなかった。」
    english: 'Article: ''No one could have even predicted in early 2009 that bitcoin would come this far.'''
  - japanese: 小説：「彼が心の中にこんな暗闇を抱えていたなど、勇者は夢想だにしなかった。」
    english: 'Novel: ''The hero couldn''t have even dreamed that he was carrying such darkness in his
      heart.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だに-しない
false_friends: []
