grammar_point: けれども
jlpt: N5
meaning: But, Although
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Conjunctive Particle
  Register: Formal
  品詞: 助詞
  単語の種類: 接続助詞
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: けれども is the more formal (full version) of the conjunction particle けど . Like けど , it usually
  carries the meaning of 'but', but because of its formality, sounds a bit more like 'although', or 'provided
  that'. It simply highlights that 'while thinking about (A), (B)'. Meaning that the (B) phrase is important,
  or needs to be considered.As can be seen from these examples, だ will be required when using this conjunction
  after a な-Adjective , or a noun.As a reminder, please see below for a list of the most casual form of
  'but', to the most formal.Casual - けど - けども - けれど - けれども - が - Formal.Fun FactOriginally, けれども was thought
  to be a more feminine version of が . However, the modern けど is so common that it has lost all of the
  feminine nuance that came from けれども .CautionAs with けど (and other forms of 'but' in Japanese), the phrase
  after けれども will often be omitted if it is obvious, or the speaker does not want to say it.
examples:
  - japanese: もう晩ご飯食べたけれども。
    english: I already ate dinner, but… (There's always room for dessert!)
  - japanese: 私はこの本が好きではないけれども、あなたは好きでしょう。
    english: I don't like this book, but you do, don't you?
  - japanese: トムに言ったけれども、トムは忘れました。
    english: I told that to Tom, but he forgot.
  - japanese: 掃除をしたけれども、まだ汚い。
    english: I cleaned, but it is still dirty.
  - japanese: 映画を見るのは楽しいけれども、チケットが高い。
    english: Watching movies is fun, but tickets are expensive.
  - japanese: 電車は便利だけれども、いつも人が多い。
    english: The train is convenient, but there are always a lot of people.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/けれども
false_friends:
  - term: が (subject marker)
    meaning: But, However
    kind: synonym
  - term: けど・だけど
    meaning: But, However
    kind: synonym
  - term: だが・ですが
    meaning: But, Still, However, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものの
    meaning: Although, But, Even Though
    kind: synonym
  - term: ところが
    meaning: Even so, However, Even though, But
    kind: synonym
