grammar_point: ずっと ①
jlpt: N4
meaning: Continuously, All throughout, Entire time, Ever (since), The whole time, All the way
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: The adverbずっとhas two primary meanings in Japanese. The first is that something keeps going in
  a constant state, without ever stopping/resting, and the second is to emphasize an amount of something.
  We will examine the first meaning in this lesson.To useずっと, add it to the beginning of the phrase that
  you want to highlight as being ongoing.Alternatively,ずっとcan be used afterから, to express that something
  has been continuing 'ever since' some specific event/point in time.Fun Factずっとliterally means that something
  is 'unwavering', or 'unfaltering'. Due to this, the statement thatずっとis attached to will always be perceived
  as being 'far more (A)', or 'to the maximum amount possible for (A)', regardless of whether it is highlighting
  a noun, verb, or an adjective.
examples:
  - japanese: ずっとゲームをしないでたまには勉強もする。
    english: Instead of continuously gaming, I occasionally also study.
  - japanese: ずっと立ってたから足が痛い。
    english: I was standing the whole time, so my feet hurt.
  - japanese: 昨日からずっと寝てないからメチャ眠い。
    english: I haven't slept at all since yesterday, so I am extremely tired.
  - japanese: 朝からずっと何も食べていないからお腹が空いたよ。
    english: I haven't eaten anything at all since morning, so I am hungry.
  - japanese: 朝からずっと忙しいですよ。
    english: I have been continuously busy since morning.
  - japanese: 私は子供の頃から彼にずっと会っていません。
    english: I have not met him ever since I was a child.
  - japanese: 私達は結婚してからずっとここに住んでいます。
    english: Ever since we got married, we have always lived here.
  - japanese: 冬休みはノートパソコンを買えるようにずっと働いていた。
    english: I worked all throughout winter vacation in order to be able to buy a new laptop.
  - japanese: 警察：「昨日の晩、何をしていたのですか。」容疑者：「ずっと家にいました。」
    english: 'Policeman: ''What did you do last evening?''Suspect: ''I was at home the whole time.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ずっと1
false_friends:
  - term: ずっと ②
    meaning: By far, Way, Far...er, Far...more
    kind: synonym
