grammar_point: てしょうがない
jlpt: N2
meaning: Extremely, Very, Really, It can't be helped
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: てしょうがない, is a common colloquial expression used when '(A) cannot be helped', or something is
  'extremely (A)'. This structure is simply an abbreviated version of仕様, a noun meaning 'way' or 'method',
  as しょう is easier to say than しよう. Literally, the meaning is close to 'it's (A), and nothing can be done
  about it'. Generally, this just implies that the extent of (A) is so high that it cannot be overlooked,
  or cannot be avoided.This structure may be seen following the て-form of verbs, い-Adjectives, of the
  で-from of な-Adjectives.Alternatively,仕方がないmay be used, but there is an extremely small difference between
  these two structures, with the noun仕方also meaning 'way' or 'method'. Traditionally,仕方がないis perceived
  to be slightly more polite, so may be more likely to be found in literature.
examples:
  - japanese: 日本語が上手になりたくてしょうがない。
    english: I can't help but want to become good at Japanese.
  - japanese: 部屋が暑くてしょうがない。
    english: My room is extremely hot.
  - japanese: スイーツが好きでしょうがない。
    english: I love sweets so much that it can't be helped.
  - japanese: 私は今妊娠をしているが、寿司を食べたくて仕方がない。
    english: Although I am pregnant right now, I really want to eat sushi.
  - japanese: 眠くて仕方がなかったので、少しだけ昼寝をしました。
    english: Since I was extremely sleepy, I took a small nap.
  - japanese: この古いパソコンは不便で仕方がないから捨てることにします。
    english: Since this old computer is extremely useless, I will throw it away.
  - japanese: いつも同じものを忘れてしょうがない。
    english: I can't help but always forget the same thing (again and again).
  - japanese: ゲームがしたくてしょうがない。
    english: I want to play video games so bad it can't be helped.
  - japanese: 楽しくてしょうがない。
    english: Extremely fun.(So fun it can't be helped)
  - japanese: あの望遠鏡が欲しくてしょうがない。
    english: I really want that telescope.(I want that telescope so much that it can't be helped)
  - japanese: 包帯をしているから、痒くてしょうがない。
    english: Because it is bandaged, it is extremely itchy.(Because I am wearing a bandage, it itches
      so much that it can't be helped)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てしょうがない
false_friends:
  - term: ずにはいられない
    meaning: Cannot help doing something, Cannot resist doing something
    kind: synonym
  - term: てならない
    meaning: Very, Extremely, Can't help but do
    kind: synonym
  - term: てたまらない
    meaning: Can't help but want to, Very, Extremely
    kind: synonym
  - term: ざるを得ない
    meaning: Can't help doing, Have no choice but
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことに
    meaning: Extremely, Especially, To my ...
    kind: synonym
