grammar_point: うちに
jlpt: N3
meaning: While, During
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When うち, (sometimes seen using the kanji内, or裡) is paired with thecase marking particleに, it
  expresses a period/space 'within' which something else will/should happen/exist. It quite often (but
  not always) carries the nuance of (A) being the 'best', or the 'optimal' time/space within which (B)
  could occur/exist. In English,うちにcan simply be translated as 'while', or 'during'.うちにmay be paired with
  the ている form of verbs, the plain form ofい-Adjectives, nouns followed by の, orな-Adjectivesthat are followed
  by な.Unlike間に,うちにexpresses something that can happen/exist anywhere 'within' the span of (A), and is
  therefore non-specific as to where (B) is located.Fun FactThe kanji裡refers literally to the inner walls/lining
  of something, and anything that is enclosed within that space. This can be thought of as where the 'non-specificity'
  of うち comes from, in regard to where within that space something is.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼と毎日会っているうちに、だんだんと彼の事が好きになってきた。
    english: As I've been meeting with him everyday, I have gradually come to like him. (As I spend more
      time with him every day, I have grown to like him)
  - japanese: 熱いうちに食べて！
    english: Eat it while it's hot!
  - japanese: お爺ちゃんがまだ元気なうちに家族皆で旅行に行こう！
    english: Let's all go on a family trip while grandpa is still healthy!
  - japanese: 今のうちに明日の準備をしておこう。
    english: Let's get ready for tomorrow while we have time. (Before it is too late)
  - japanese: 運転している間に眠くなったので、コンビニで休憩をした。
    english: I got sleepy while driving, so I took a break at a convenience store. (While in the process
      of driving)
  - japanese: 運転しているうちに眠くなったので、コンビニで休憩をした。
    english: I got sleepy while driving, so I took a break at a convenience store. (At one point while
      driving)
  - japanese: 授業を受けている内に、宿題を完成させた。
    english: I was able to finish my homework while taking a class.
  - japanese: 赤ちゃんは食べている内に寝てしまった。
    english: The baby fell asleep while eating.
  - japanese: 近い内に連絡します。
    english: I'll be in touch before long.
  - japanese: 日本にいる内に東京に行ってみたい。
    english: While I am in Japan, I want to see Tokyo.
  - japanese: 朝顔はみるみる内に成長し、大きくなった。
    english: The Morning Glory grew taller and got bigger within / during a short time.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/うちに
false_friends:
  - term: ているあいだに
    meaning: While, During the time that ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: の間に
    meaning: While, During, Between, Period
    kind: synonym
  - term: とき
    meaning: When, At the time of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないうちに
    meaning: Before it becomes, Before ~ occurs, Without
    kind: synonym
  - term: ながら
    meaning: While ~ing, During, As
    kind: synonym
  - term: ているところだ
    meaning: In the process of doing ~ right now/at this moment
    kind: synonym
  - term: 最中に
    meaning: In the middle of
    kind: synonym
  - term: 中
    meaning: During, While, Throughout, In the process of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ついでに
    meaning: While you are at it, On the occasion
    kind: synonym
