grammar_point: 言うまでもない ②
jlpt: N3
meaning: It goes without saying, It is needless to say, Of course, Obviously
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Unlike は言うまでもない, which usually comes after other phrases,言うまでもない tends to come at the beginning.
  It is a structure that combines the う - Verb言う, two (2)adverbial particlesまで and も, and theい-Adjectiveない.
  This is regularly translated as 'it goes without saying that (A)', or 'it is needless to say (A)', where
  (A) is whatever comes later in the sentence.言うまでもないis often followed directly by ことだが, が, けど, and similar
  expressions, to add the nuance of 'but'.Fun Fact言うまでもないis a polite way to express that something is
  'obvious', without unintentionally sounding arrogant.
examples:
  - japanese: 言うまでもないことだが、毎日漢字の勉強をすれば、どんどん漢字を覚えることができる。
    english: It goes without saying that if you practice kanji everyday, you will steadily memorize them.
  - japanese: 電化製品を使っている間、言うまでもないが、濡れた手や水の周りで使うのは危険だ。
    english: While you are using electronics, it is needless to say that you should not use them with
      wet hands or around water.
  - japanese: 言うまでもないけど、君に会えて良かった。
    english: It goes without saying, but I am glad that I met you.
  - japanese: 言うまでもないことだが、お酒を飲んで運転をしてはいけない。
    english: Obviously,  you should not drink and drive.
  - japanese: A：「あのさ近づいちゃいけない動物っているの？」B：「う～ん....ライオンやヘビみたいなのは言うまでもないけどカバも危ないよ。」
    english: 'A: ''Hey, are there any animals I shouldn''t approach?''B: ''Hmm, lions and snakes go without
      saying, but hippos are also dangerous.'''
  - japanese: 言うまでもないことだが、文章を読みやすくするために、括弧は使われている。
    english: It goes without saying that brackets are used to make reading easier.
  - japanese: さだおさんの妻のえみさんは英語は言うまでもなく、韓国語も話せます。
    english: Sadao-san's wife, Emi-san can speak Korean, not to mention English.
  - japanese: 言うまでもないけど、それが恋だった。
    english: It goes without saying, but that was love.
  - japanese: 言うまでもないことだが、アルコールを飲んで泳いだら、溺れて死んでしまうかもしれない。
    english: It goes without saying that if you drink and go swimming, then you might drown.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/言うまでもない2
false_friends:
  - term: は言うまでもない ①
    meaning: It goes without saying (that), (It is) needless to say, I don't need to remind you
    kind: synonym
