grammar_point: にしても
jlpt: N3
meaning: Even though, Even if, Even when, Also
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In the same way thatにしてはhighlights a point to be considered about (A), or simply 'while (A)',
  the replacement of は with theadverbial particleも will put further emphasis on (B) being a surprising
  or unexpected thing that accompanies (A). This continues to reflect thecase marking particleに's use
  as a location.にしてもmay be translated as 'even considering (A), (B)', or 'even while (A), (B)', and may
  be used with any word in itsplain form. にして by itself is often considered as a stand-aloneadverbial
  particle, despite stemming from several parts.にしてもis very regularly used with Japanese's equivalent
  of WH-words, like どこ, どの, だれ, なに, etc. In these cases, it highlights that 'even considering (A) is undetermined
  (in location, number, amount, etc), (B)'.CautionAs opposed toとしても, a grammar point that will be covered
  in another lesson,にしてもmay introduce new topics (としてもmay not). This is due toにしてもimplying that (A) and
  (B) exist simultaneously, without the need for (B) to necessarily stem from (A). However,としてもwill always
  imply that (B) stems from (A) in some way.
examples:
  - japanese: パーティーに行くにしても、私はシャイだからいつも一人で飲んでいる。
    english: Even if I go to a party, I am shy so I always drink alone.
  - japanese: うちの犬は可愛いにしても、子供が近づくと吠えるから子供がいない公園に行かないといけない。
    english: Even though my dog is cute, if a child approaches, he barks, so we have to go to a park with
      no children.
  - japanese: 今は今ここにある分で十分にしても、もっと人が集まって来たら足りなくなると思います。
    english: Right now, even if what we have here is enough, in the event that more people arrive, I think
      it will not suffice.
  - japanese: 独身にしても、家具が少なくない？
    english: Even for a single person, isn't this not much furniture?
  - japanese: ハイキングをするときは、どこにしてもベルを持って行った方がいい。
    english: When you go hiking, no matter where you go, you should go with a bell.
  - japanese: もし近所のルールを守っていない人を見つけたら、誰にしても注意をしなければいけない。
    english: In the case that you see someone not following the rules of the neighborhood, no matter who
      it is, you have to caution them.
  - japanese: このプロジェクトが難しいとしても、クライアントのためにやらないといけない。
    english: Even if this project is hard, we have to do it for the client. (Even though it is hard, we
      must do it for the client)
  - japanese: このプロジェクトが難しいにしても、締め切りまでには終わらせないといけない。
    english: Even if this project is hard, we must finish it by the deadline. (Even if we go off that
      fact that it is hard, it must be finished by the deadline)
  - japanese: すぐ始めるにしても、肝心の山田さんがここにいない。
    english: Even if we start immediately, Mr. Yamada, who is essential, is not here.
  - japanese: ジュースがいっぱいの樽を頼むにしても、まだ足りないと思います。
    english: Even if we order a barrel full of juice, I still think it won't be enough.
  - japanese: 英語の勉強は楽しいにしても、日々忙しく、毎日勉強を続けるのはとても疲れる。
    english: Even if studying English is fun, continuing it every single day is too tiring.
  - japanese: 言うにしても言い方というものがあるでしょ。
    english: Even if you (decide to) say something, there is still something called manner of speech.
  - japanese: 分からないにしても、少しくらいは調べてくれてもいいじゃないか。
    english: Even if you don't know, you can do a bit of research, right?
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にしても
false_friends:
  - term: 何しろ
    meaning: No wonder, After all, In fact, Because, At any rate
    kind: synonym
  - term: のに (in order to)
    meaning: Despite, Although, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: ながらも
    meaning: But, Even while, Even though, Despite, Although
    kind: synonym
  - term: かどうか
    meaning: Whether or not, If...or not
    kind: synonym
  - term: ても
    meaning: Even if, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: どんなに〜ても
    meaning: No matter how
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしろ～にしろ
    meaning: Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: にせよ・にしろ
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter, Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: てでも
    meaning: Even if I have to, By any or all means, No matter what
    kind: synonym
  - term: たって
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter how
    kind: synonym
  - term: とも
    meaning: Even if, No matter
    kind: synonym
  - term: としても
    meaning: Even if (we assume), Assuming,  Also as
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとえ〜ても
    meaning: Even if…is the case, Supposing that
    kind: synonym
