grammar_point: くせに
jlpt: N3
meaning: Even though, And yet, Despite
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 癖is anounthat means 'habit' or 'tendency'. However, as it usually refers to a negative thing,
  'vice' is another accurate translation.くせに(usually appearing without kanji) is the combination of くせ,
  and thecase marking particleに. This structure is often used to criticize the actions of others, and
  is used in a similar way to 'despite', 'even though', or 'and yet' in English.As くせ is a noun,くせにmay
  be used after theattributive formof any other word.Fun Fact癖is a word that has developed a 'negative'
  meaning over time. Originally,癖was used to convey a preference, or the side that someone or something
  tended to lean toward (due to it being favorable for some reason). When adding thecase marking particleにto
  this, it merely expressed that (A) was the preferable state/location, so (B) not being/not acting in
  a way appropriate for (A) is less than desirable.
examples:
  - japanese: さっき寝るって言ってたくせにまだ起きてるの？
    english: Even though you said that you are going to sleep earlier, are you still up?
  - japanese: 若いくせに何ダラダラしているんだ。
    english: Why are you working so sluggishly even though you are young?
  - japanese: 自分だって下手なくせに何偉そうに言ってるんだ。
    english: Despite you also being no pro, why are you talking so high and mighty.
  - japanese: この子は犬のくせにニャーと鳴く。
    english: Even though he is a dog, he meows.
  - japanese: 給料を沢山もらう癖に、貯金がないらしい。
    english: Despite getting paid a lot, I have heard that he has no savings.
  - japanese: 休みの癖に、家の手伝いを何もしない。
    english: Even though it is your day off, you don't help at all with the housework.
  - japanese: 暑い癖に、あの人は毎日セーターを着て仕事に行く。
    english: It is hot and yet, that person wears a sweater to work everyday.
  - japanese: あの人は先輩の癖に、いつも僕におごらせようとする。
    english: Despite being my senior, he/she always tries to make me pay.
  - japanese: 何も知らない癖に、偉そうなことを言うのはやめてください。
    english: Despite not knowing anything, you surely act high and mighty. Please just stop.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/くせに
false_friends:
  - term: のに (in order to)
    meaning: Despite, Although, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: それでも
    meaning: But still, And yet, Even so, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: ながらも
    meaning: But, Even while, Even though, Despite, Although
    kind: synonym
  - term: それなのに
    meaning: And yet, Despite this
    kind: synonym
  - term: にもかかわらず
    meaning: Despite, In spite of, Regardless, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: つつ(も)
    meaning: Even while ~ing, Even though ~ing, Despite ~ing, Although ~ing
    kind: synonym
  - term: が (subject marker)
    meaning: But, However
    kind: synonym
