grammar_point: ことから
jlpt: N3
meaning: From the fact that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In order to come to a logical conclusion about something in Japanese, sometimes strong expressions
  likeことからwill be used. This is a combination of thenounこと, and thecase marking particleから.ことからliterally
  means 'from that which is (A), (B)', but is generally simply translated as 'from the fact that (A),
  (B)'.ことからmay be connected to the end of any phrase, so long as the word before it is in itsattributive
  form.CautionThere is a difference betweenことから'from the fact that' andことだから'because'. Inことだから, から is
  aconjunction particlethat links the (A) and (B) parts of a sentence. However, inことから, から is acase marking
  particle, meaning that it is highlighting the subject.
examples:
  - japanese: こんな早い時間に妻が寝ていることから、今日は色々と大変だったと気づいた。
    english: From the fact that my wife is sleeping at such an early time, I noticed that she was busy
      with many things today.
  - japanese: 家の家具が全部新しいことから、彼はここに引っ越してきたばかりだと分かった。
    english: From the fact that all his furniture is new, I realized that he has just moved here.
  - japanese: 子供が静かなことから、何か悪いことをしていると分かった。
    english: From the fact that my kids were quiet, I knew that they were doing something bad.
  - japanese: これらのことからイベントを中止することに決めました。
    english: From these facts, we have decided to cancel the event.
  - japanese: コーヒーが冷たいことから、コーヒーが淹れられたのは結構前だと分かる。
    english: From the fact that the coffee is cold, you can tell that it was poured quite a while ago.
  - japanese: コーヒーが冷たいことだから、コーヒーが淹れられたのは結構前だと分かる。
    english: Since the coffee is cold, you can tell that it was poured quite a while ago.
  - japanese: いい先生から数学を学んだ事から、私も数学の先生になりたい。
    english: From the fact that I learned math from a good teacher, I too want to be a math teacher.
  - japanese: 野球がとても上手な事から、将来は有名になりそうだ。
    english: From the fact that he is really good at baseball, it seems like he will be famous one day.
  - japanese: フィルが一生懸命文法を勉強し始めた事から、彼が日本語の能力を高めようと思っていることに気がついた。
    english: From the fact that Phil began intensely studying grammar, I realized that he was set on improving
      his Japanese language ability.
  - japanese: この城の城壁は白い鳥の翼のように見える事から、白鳥城と呼ばれるようになった。
    english: From the fact that this castle's walls look like a white bird's wings, it has come to be
      called 'white bird castle'.
  - japanese: この靴は歩いてもあまり音がしない事から、英語でスニーカーと呼ばれている。「トゥ スニーク」というのは日本語で忍び寄るということです。
    english: From the fact that these shoes produce little sound, they are called 'sneakers' in english.
      'To sneak' is 'しのびよる' in Japanese.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことから
false_friends:
  - term: 点
    meaning: Aspect, Respect, Point, Way, In terms of, In that, From the point of view
    kind: synonym
  - term: からして
    meaning: Even..., Judging from, Based on
    kind: synonym
  - term: からすると・からすれば
    meaning: Judging from, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: から言うと
    meaning: Speaking in terms of, From the point of view of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことだから
    meaning: It is exactly because
    kind: synonym
