grammar_point: ほとんど
jlpt: N4
meaning: Hardly, Rarely, Seldom
meaning_warning: generally written in kana, though 殆ど form can also be seen
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: The adverbほとんどis used in many situations in Japanese, and often translates as 'most', 'hardly
  any', 'almost all', and similar expressions. The nuance will always depend on the rest of the sentence.
  The most accurate translation for the wordほとんどitself is simply 'almost', where the thing that it is
  describing is always considered to be a full group, rather than a single thing.As with many other adverbs
  that highlight an 'amount' in Japanese,ほとんどcan modify a whole phrase, or can be used beforeの, to further
  specify a single noun.In negative sentences,ほとんどtranslates as 'hardly any'. This is mainly due to the
  'full group' thatほとんどis describing being highlighted as almost 'not' existing.
examples:
  - japanese: 宿題はほとんど終わっているよ。
    english: Most of my homework is done.
  - japanese: 弁当はほとんど食べてないけど、おやつは全部食べた。
    english: I didn't eat most of my lunch, but I ate all the snacks.
  - japanese: ほとんどの人は私の名前を読めません。
    english: Most people can't read my name.
  - japanese: ほとんどの大学生は親と住んでいます。
    english: Most college students live with their parents.
  - japanese: 今年は屋台がほとんどないね。
    english: There are hardly any food stalls this year.
  - japanese: 週末に出かけることはほとんどないです。
    english: I hardly go out during the weekends.
  - japanese: みんなは、ほとんど帰りました。
    english: Almost everyone has gone home.
  - japanese: 今日は宿題がほとんどない。
    english: There is hardly any homework today. (almost/mostly none)
  - japanese: この湖はほとんど浅いと思う。
    english: This lake is mostly shallow, I think.
  - japanese: えっ！この魚ほとんど匂いがない。
    english: Huh?! This fish hardly has any smell. (almost/mostly none)
  - japanese: 締め切りまでに出す生徒がほとんどいなかった。
    english: Hardly any students submitted (the paper) before the deadline. (almost/mostly none)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ほとんど
false_friends:
  - term: めったに〜ない
    meaning: Hardly, Rarely, Seldom
    kind: synonym
