grammar_point: 同士
jlpt: N3
meaning: Fellow, With each other, Mutually, Between, Among, Together, With
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 同士'fellow' is a noun that may be used in the same way as asuffix. When used this way, it conveys
  things that are 'mutually (A)', 'fellow (A)', or '(A) together'.To use同士, attach it directly to the
  end of another noun, before expressing further information about that 'mutual' relationship. Alternatively,
  (noun +同士+ の + noun) is also common, and expresses that noun (B) is a grouped form of noun (A).同士is
  used most often to express two different types of 'mutuality'. These are as follows:種類- Type. (A) is
  the same type as (B).関係- Relationship. (A) shares the same relationship as (B).Caution同士is most frequently
  used to highlight 'people', or 'living things' that share some type of relationship, rather than inanimate
  objects. An easy way to remember this is that the士kanji in this word means 'gentleman'. However, it
  may occasionally be seen in reference to inanimate objects as well.
examples:
  - japanese: これは弁護士同士の話しなので勝手に入って来ないで下さい。
    english: This is a conversation between lawyers, so please don't barge in.
  - japanese: 家族同士で会話をするときはほとんど日本語です。
    english: When we talk between family members, we mostly use Japanese.
  - japanese: 彼は友達同士の約束を破った。
    english: He broke a promise that was made between friends.
  - japanese: お互い大人同士なんだから、落ち着いて話し合おうよ。
    english: We are fellow adults, so let's calm down and talk about this.
  - japanese: あなたたちは本当に似たもの同士ね。
    english: You guys are really similar (in personality).
  - japanese: それは兄弟同士の問題でしょ？私を巻き込まないで。
    english: That is an issue between siblings, isn't it? Don't pull me into it.
  - japanese: この糊は紙同士だとよくくっつきますがプラスチック同士だとあまりくっつかないです。
    english: This glue sticks really well between paper, but between plastic, it does not stick well.
      (Natural, but not very common)
  - japanese: プロの格闘家同士の戦いは見ていて楽しい。
    english: Watching a fight between two professional martial artists is fun. (Natural)
  - japanese: キリンは雄同士が喧嘩をする時互いに長い首で打ち合う。
    english: When male giraffes fight among themselves they hit each other with their long necks.
  - japanese: そのため、日本の企業会社同士の協力が以前よりも必要だ。
    english: Because of that, cooperation among Japanese companies is needed more than before.
  - japanese: 負けた者同士で飲みに行こうよ！
    english: Those among us who have lost, let's go drinking!
  - japanese: 「だって」は家族や友達同士などで使う、くだけた表現なので、上司などとの話し合いのときは使わないでください。
    english: '''だって'' is an informal expression used among family and friends, therefore please do not
      use it when discussing with superiors and the like.'
  - japanese: このように紐でページ同士を結びつけることができます。
    english: You can connect pages together with a string like this.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/同士
false_friends:
  - term: ～のうち(で)
    meaning: Of the, Among(st)
    kind: synonym
  - term: のなかで
    meaning: In, Among, Within
    kind: synonym
