grammar_point: べくして
jlpt: N1
meaning: As expected, Meant to, Supposed to, Destined to, Sure to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: べくしてis a combination of theconjunctive formof theclassical auxiliary verbべし, べく, and the conjunctive
  particle して, which shows a situation from which a logical determination can be made, or will be a natural
  course of action. べく itself indicates the word that it is attached to as a 'purpose' or 'end goal'.べくしてis
  often translated simply as 'as expected of (A), (B)', or 'as was supposed to (A), (B)'. (A) and (B)
  will be the same verb repeated.The literal meaning of 'as determined with the purpose of (A)' may also
  be used if it helps to remember the nuance. This expression is quite formal, so will rarely be heard
  in daily speech.Fun FactAs mentioned in other grammar patterns that contain variations of べく such as
  べき and べし, this structure derives from the kanji可, which is usually translated as 'permissible' or 'allowed'.
  All 可 really indicates is a situation that does not currently exist, but it certain to come about as
  a part of the most logical course of events.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女らはここ2年間毎日文句を言わずにトレーニングしてきたから、大会で勝つべくして勝ったんだ。
    english: These girls have trained every day for the last two years without complaint, so as expected
      they won the competition.
  - japanese: 役所には何回もここに止まれの標識を設置するように訴えたが対応してくれなかったので、この事故は起こるべくして起こった。
    english: We have asked the city office multiple times to install a stop sign here, but they never
      listened to us, so this accident was expected.
  - japanese: 最近、彼女とは出会うべくして出会ったと感じることが多い。
    english: Recently, I have been feeling that we were destined to meet.
  - japanese: タイトル：「俺の青春ラブコメはまちがいになるべくしてなった。」
    english: 'Title: ''As expected, my romantic youth comedy was a blunder.'' (meant to・supposed to・destined
      to)'
  - japanese: 壊れた一時停止標識を放置した結果、起こるべくして起こった交通事故だ。
    english: As expected, the result of neglecting a broken stop sign was a traffic accident. (meant to・supposed
      to・destined to)
  - japanese: 「これらの二人は、専門分野も年齢も共に近いゆえに出会うべくして出会ったと言えるだろう。」
    english: As expected, one can say that these two met because they both shared fields of expertise
      and were close in age. (meant to・supposed to・destined to)
  - japanese: 不景気か否かにかかわらず、高品質で適正価格の商品は売れるべくして売れている。
    english: Regardless of whether there is a recession or not, products of good quality and reasonable
      price are sure to sell. (meant to・supposed to・expected to)
  - japanese: 好景気が遅かれ早かれ終わるのは経済学者にとって当然のことであったし、そうなるべくしてなった。
    english: To the economists, it was only natural that prosperity will end sooner or later, and, as
      expected, that's what happened. (meant to・supposed to・destined to)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/べくして
false_friends: []
