grammar_point: ないと
jlpt: N4
meaning: Must, Have to
meaning_warning: ないとならない is generally not used and is best avoided
details:
  Register: Casual
  使用域: タメ語
writeup: As an extension of the 'if' meaning ofと, attaching theauxiliary verbない to the verb before it
  will express 'if (A) is not done, (B)'. (B) is most frequently いけない 'cannot go', which makesないといけないa
  double negative phrase, which translates to 'must do (A)', or 'have to do (A)'.いけない may be replaced
  with だめ, to make the phrase more casual, but ならない is generally not used withないと.ないといけないis regularly
  abbreviated toないと, but has exactly the same meaning in these cases.CautionAsとhas the 'and' nuance, it
  givesないとa level of strength that is not seen in similar phrases likeなければいけない, orなくてはいけない. Because of
  this,ないとis often used to highlight things which absolutely 'must' be done (obeying the law, adhering
  to customs, using common sense, etc.).
examples:
  - japanese: ライト君が悪いんだから、リュウ君に謝らないといけないでしょう。
    english: Raito-kun, you are in the wrong, so you have to apologize to Ryu-kun, right?
  - japanese: 今日は勉強しないとだめだから、明日は？
    english: I have to study today, so how about tomorrow?
  - japanese: 明日はテストがあるの？！勉強しないと。
    english: There is a test tomorrow!? I have to study.
  - japanese: もう7時じゃん？準備しないと。
    english: Oh, it's already 7? I need to get ready.
  - japanese: 歩行者も信号機を守らないといけない。
    english: Even pedestrians have to obey traffic lights.
  - japanese: 「約束を守らないといけません！」
    english: '''You have to keep your promise!'' (must)'
  - japanese: 「なぜ、税金を払わないといけないのですか？」
    english: '''Why do I have to pay taxes?'' (must)'
  - japanese: 「子沢山だから、一週間に三十回は洗濯しないとだめ。」
    english: '''There are lots of children, so I have to do laundry thirty times a week.'' (must)'
  - japanese: 「ほたるちゃん、うちに遊びにきてくれるの？」「すみません。明日までに宿題を済ませないといけないのです。」
    english: '''Hotaru, will you come and hang out at my house?''''I am sorry. I have to finish doing
      my homework by tomorrow.'' (must)'
  - japanese: 「合格したらまず両親や先生に伝えないと。」
    english: '''If I pass, I have to tell my parents and teacher first!'' (must)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ないと
false_friends:
  - term: なくてはいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくてはならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくちゃ・なきゃ
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: べき
    meaning: Must, Should , Ought to
    kind: synonym
