grammar_point: 一方だ
jlpt: N3
meaning: More and more, Continue to, Keep on, -er and -er
meaning_warning: The verb must express change (e.g. 増える、下がる、or verbs ending with …なる、…てくる、…ていく etc.)
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 一方is anounthat is often seen after verbs, in order to convey the meaning of 'more and more (A)',
  'continuing to (A)', or 'getting (A)er and (A)er'.一方will be paired with theauxiliary verbだ(at the end
  of sentences), or で, だ'sconjunctive formwhen it will be followed by some sort of explanation.As the
  literal meaning of一方is 'single direction', it may be used with things that are increasing, decreasing,
  intensifying, or weakening, so long as the shift is all in a single direction.Caution一方may only be used
  with verbs that express some kind of change, as一方itself does not express change, just a continuing direction.
examples:
  - japanese: アメリカとロシアの関係は悪化する一方だ。
    english: The relationship between the US and Russia keeps on getting worse.
  - japanese: 仕事の量が増える一方で、休みが取れない。
    english: Because the amount of work keeps on increasing, I can't take a day off.
  - japanese: 高齢化が進んで、人口が減る一方だ。 (Natural)
    english: Because of the aging society, the population continues to decline.
  - japanese: 子供が怪我をして泣く一方だ。 (Unnatural)
    english: The child cries in one direction because he got injured.
  - japanese: 上昇し続ける物価のせいで生活は苦しくなる一方だ。
    english: Due to the continuous growth of prices, life keeps on getting harder and harder.
  - japanese: 残念ながらこんな事件が増える一方だ。
    english: Unfortunately, there are more and more cases like these.
  - japanese: 皆が何もしようとしないから、地球温暖化が悪くなる一方だ。
    english: Because no one is doing anything about it, global warming is continuing to get worse.
  - japanese: このままだと借金が増える一方だ。
    english: If I keep going on like this, my debts will continue to increase.
  - japanese: 景気は悪くなる一方だから、ボーナスは出ないかもしれないですよ。
    english: We might not get a bonus because the market keeps getting worse and worse.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/一方だ
false_friends:
  - term: 一方で
    meaning: On the other hand, At the same time, While
    kind: synonym
  - term: どんどん
    meaning: Progressively, Rapidly increasing, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: いよいよ
    meaning: At last, Finally, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: つづける
    meaning: To continue
    kind: synonym
  - term: ば〜ほど
    meaning: The more…the more
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかりだ
    meaning: (Only) continue to, Keep on -ing, More and more
    kind: synonym
  - term: ますます
    meaning: Increasingly, More and more, Decreasingly, Less and less, Keep -ing
    kind: synonym
