grammar_point: にしては
jlpt: N3
meaning: (Even) considering, (Even) for
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Likeとして, にして highlights an aspect of something from which another thing happens. The primary
  difference being that と implies that (B) results from (A), whileにimplies that (B) happens/exists at
  the same time as (A). This reflects thecase marking particleに's use as a location. Theadverbial particleは
  presents the entire (A) phrase as something that will be compared.にしてはis regularly translated as 'considering
  (A), (B)', or 'even for (A), (B)', and may be used with both verbs and nouns. Likeとして, にして is often
  considered as a stand-aloneadverbial particle, despite stemming from several parts.Despite the 'considering
  (A), (B)' translation,にしてはis closer in meaning to 'while (A), (B)'. This expresses that (A) and (B)
  share a simultaneous relation, but also that (B) is not necessarily a result of (A) at all.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は毎日漢字の勉強をしているにしては全然漢字を読めない。
    english: For someone that studies kanji every day, he can't read it at all.
  - japanese: 始めたばかりにしては結構じょうずだね。
    english: Considering you have just started, you are considerably good.
  - japanese: 田舎にしてはコンビニがいっぱいあるね。
    english: Considering that this is the countryside, there are many convenience stores.
  - japanese: あの人は俳優にしてはあまりイケメンじゃない。
    english: Considering he is an actor, he is not very attractive.
  - japanese: 中卒にしては頭がいいけど、大卒の同級生と比べるとそうでもない。
    english: Considering that he is a middle school graduate, he is smart, but compared to a college graduate
      of the same age he is not that smart.
  - japanese: 新人にしてはよく働くけど、他と比べるとあまり働いていない。
    english: For a new worker he works a lot, but compared to others, he doesn't work that much.
  - japanese: 力士にしては結構細いですね。
    english: Considering he is a sumo wrestler, he is quite thin.
  - japanese: 彼は１０年間日本に住んでいるにしては、全く日本語をしゃべれない。
    english: (Even) considering he has lived in Japan for 10 years, he can't speak a word of Japanese.
  - japanese: 田舎にしてはいい方ですよ、うちの家は。
    english: Considering it's in the countryside, my house is decent.
  - japanese: 猫にしては大きすぎませんか？
    english: (Even) for a cat, isn't it too big?
  - japanese: うどんにしては随分細い麺だな。
    english: Considering it's udon, these noodles are quite thin.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にしては
false_friends:
  - term: 割に
    meaning: Although, Despite, Rather...for, Unexpectedly, Comparatively, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: としては
    meaning: As a, For a, As for
    kind: synonym
  - term: に比べて
    meaning: Compared to, When compared to
    kind: synonym
  - term: に取って
    meaning: To, For, Concerning
    kind: synonym
  - term: からすると・からすれば
    meaning: Judging from, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: から見ると
    meaning: From the point of view of, By the look of
    kind: synonym
  - term: からして
    meaning: Even..., Judging from, Based on
    kind: synonym
