grammar_point: という理由で
jlpt: N3
meaning: For (that) reason; on the grounds of (that), With the reasoning, Under the pretext of, Due to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: という理由でis a phrase that is used when giving reasons for (A). (A) may be a range of different things,
  from what happened, to what one's opinion is. Due to という quoting the previous statement as being the
  'reason',という理由でputs quite a bit of emphasis on the reason itself. Because of this, the expression is
  quite similar to 'being that' in English.Thecase marking particleで will be used after理由to show that
  'with' or 'by means of' that reason, (B).Fun FactAlmost all cases whereという理由でwill be used may be replaced
  by というわけで. However, the reverse is not true.The reason that わけ may be used for理由, but理由cannot always
  be used for わけ (especially at the beginning of sentences) is because わけ is another way of reading the
  kanji for理由. However, the more common kanji for訳will never be read as りゆう.
examples:
  - japanese: コストコは安く沢山買い物が出来るという理由で人気がある。
    english: At Costco, you can shop for many things at a cheap price. For that reason it is popular.
  - japanese: 大変だという理由で彼は仕事を辞めた。
    english: Being that his job was a hassle, he resigned.
  - japanese: 安くて美味しいという理由で、この店の前にはいつも行列ができています。
    english: Being that this place is cheap and delicious, they always have a long line in front of the
      store.
  - japanese: 一人で行きたくないという訳では無いです。一人で行くのは危ないと言いたいのです。
    english: It is not so that I don't want to go alone. I am saying that it is dangerous to go alone.
  - japanese: という理由で、この企画はキャンセルすることにします。 (Unnatural)
    english: For that reason, we are going to cancel this plan.
  - japanese: というわけで、この企画はキャンセルすることにします。 (Natural)
    english: Well with that, we will decide on canceling this plan.
  - japanese: メアリーさんは仕事中に映画を見がちという理由で首になるかもしれない。
    english: Mary might be fired on the grounds of her having the tendency to watch movies while at work.
  - japanese: 仕事がとても大変だった。そういう理由で、今日はゆっくりしたい。
    english: Work was really rough. For that reason, I want to take it easy today.
  - japanese: 「一方で、冬にはお客様が来ないから」という理由で、その頃の店はほとんど閉められている。
    english: '''On the other hand,'' with the reason being that ''customers do not come during the winter,''
      most shops are closed.'
  - japanese: 彼はともこさんが自分の妻を殺したという理由でともこさんを訴えた。
    english: On the grounds of Tomoko-san killing his wife, he is taking Tomoko-san to court.
  - japanese: やまださんは年寄りだという理由で、詐欺師によってターゲットによくされている。
    english: Mr. Yamada is often targeted by con-artists on the grounds that he is elderly.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/という理由で
false_friends:
  - term: そのため(に)
    meaning: For that reason, Because of that, To that end
    kind: synonym
