grammar_point: と (conditional)
jlpt: N4
meaning: If, When, Whenever, And, [Conditional]
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In the same way as thecase marking particleとmeans 'and', sometimes it is translated as 'if'.
  In these cases, it is considered to be far stronger thanば,なら, orたら(which express hypothetical outcomes).
  This is because one of the primary uses ofとis highlighting aresult. In these cases,とis actually aconjunction
  particle, and shows one of three things.仮定の順接- A result that is assumed to be true, and obvious.確定の順接-
  A result that is known to be true.仮定の逆接- The opposite of a result that is assumed to be true.Due to
  this, the (B) part of a phrase usingとas 'if', will always occur when (A) happens, as it is considered
  to be the result of (A).とmay not be used in situations where the (B) result 'might' happen. It must
  be definite (or close to definite).In this particular nuance ofと, despite being translated as 'if',
  the actual meaning is much closer to 'and', asとis expressing that (A) and (B) will always go together.
examples:
  - japanese: 甘いものをいっぱい食べると、太る。
    english: If you eat a lot of sweet things, you will gain weight.
  - japanese: 部屋が汚いと、お母さんに怒られる。
    english: If my room is messy, my mother will yell at me.
  - japanese: 部屋が静かだと、眠れない。
    english: If my room is quiet, I can't sleep.
  - japanese: 地下鉄だと、5分早く着く。
    english: If it's the subway, you will arrive 5 minutes faster.
  - japanese: 走るとけがをする。
    english: If I run, I will injure myself. (Unnatural Japanese, unless this person always injures themselves
      while running for some reason)
  - japanese: 目を閉じると、何も見えない。
    english: I close my eyes, and I can't see.
  - japanese: 勉強をすると、テストは簡単になる。
    english: If you study, the test will be easy.
  - japanese: この石を磨くと、綺麗になる。
    english: If you polish this rock, it will become beautiful.
  - japanese: ここから見ると、富士山が全然見えない。
    english: If you look from here, you can't see Mt. Fuji at all.
  - japanese: 水着を持って来るのを忘れると海に入れないよ。
    english: If you forget to bring your swimsuit, you won't be able to swim in the ocean.
  - japanese: 週に3回トレーニングをするとだんだん強くなる。
    english: Whenever you workout three times a week, you gradually get stronger. (if...)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/と-conditional
false_friends:
  - term: ば
    meaning: If… then, (Conditional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばあいは
    meaning: In the event of, In the case of
    kind: synonym
  - term: たら
    meaning: When, From when, Just when, If
    kind: synonym
  - term: なら
    meaning: Were it, If, If it's the case, As for (Conditional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: もし
    meaning: If (For emphasis)
    kind: synonym
  - term: すると
    meaning: Having done..., If...is done..., (And/just) then, Thereupon, If so
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうすると
    meaning: Having done that..., If that is done..., (And/just) then, Thereupon, If so
    kind: synonym
