grammar_point: むしろ
jlpt: N3
meaning: Rather, Instead, Over
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When a speaker is making a determination about something in Japanese, theadverbむしろ is often used
  to express a more accurate depiction of what has already been said. This is regularly translated as
  'rather', or 'instead'.むしろ will mostly appear at the beginning of new sentences, or the beginning of
  a second clause within a sentence, before information about (A) will be clarified.As むしろ seeks to give
  a more accurate description about something, it will often be paired with grammar patterns such as より,
  to show where the comparison is being made.Fun Factむしろ comes from the kanji寧ろ, literally meaning 'preferable'.
  This is the same kanji that appears in the word丁寧, meaning 'polite' (sometimes also translated as 'careful').
  The grammar structure むしろ itself may even be translated as 'preferably', simply expressing that careful
  consideration has been given to describing something accurately.
examples:
  - japanese: 何でそっちが怒ってるの？むしろこっちが怒りたいよ。
    english: Why are you mad? I want to be the one that is mad instead. (It would be preferable if I was
      mad, because you're the one that is wrong)
  - japanese: むしろ、安い方を買った方がいいとおもう。
    english: Buying a cheaper one would be better instead.
  - japanese: 車をリースするより、むしろ中古の車を買った方が安く済む。
    english: Instead of leasing a car, it would be cheaper if you bought a used one.
  - japanese: 俺はMMOよりむしろシングルプレイヤーのゲームの方が好きだ。
    english: Rather than MMOs, I like single player games more.
  - japanese: むしろ、そっちに謝ってほしいよ。
    english: Preferably, I want you to apologize. (Rather than me, it would be better if you apologized)
  - japanese: むしろ、先生に聞いてみた方がいいんじゃない？
    english: Preferably, wouldn't it be better to ask the teacher? (The teacher will give a much more
      preferable answer than me)
  - japanese: 都会より寧ろ田舎の方が好きだ。
    english: I prefer the countryside over the city.
  - japanese: 友人にするなら、賑やかな人より寧ろ無口なくらいの人がいい。
    english: Rather than a lively person as a friend, a silent person is better.
  - japanese: 一緒に悪口を言うより、寧ろ悪口を言われる方がいい。
    english: Instead of bad-mouthing together, you both should be the ones getting insulted.
  - japanese: 旅行は楽しかったと言うより、寧ろ疲れてしまった。
    english: Rather than saying that the trip was exciting, I would say that it was tiring.
  - japanese: 韓国に行くより寧ろ日本に行きたい。
    english: Rather than going to Korea, I'd go to Japan.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/むしろ
false_friends:
  - term: というより
    meaning: '...is more of a... than a..., Rather than saying that...'
    kind: synonym
  - term: 割に
    meaning: Although, Despite, Rather...for, Unexpectedly, Comparatively, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: それとも
    meaning: Or, Or else, Rather
    kind: synonym
  - term: 逆に
    meaning: On the contrary
    kind: synonym
  - term: に反して
    meaning: Go against, Contrary to
    kind: synonym
  - term: 代わりに
    meaning: Instead of,  In place of, In exchange for
    kind: synonym
  - term: 却って
    meaning: All the more, On the contrary, Conversely
    kind: synonym
