grammar_point: 際に
jlpt: N2
meaning: When, At the time of, In case of, On the occasion of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 際is a noun in Japanese that means 'verge'. This is as in 'to be on the verge', and translates
  mostly as 'on the occasion of (A)', 'at the time of (A)', 'in case of (A)', or 'when (A)'. In the same
  way as 'verge' in English, it implies a fairly big or somehow important event, and will not be used
  with standard occurrences.際にwill appear after verbs in either their dictionary or past-tense forms,
  and after nouns. In the case of nouns, it will be preceded by の.While (A) is likely to be a temporary
  or one-off event,際にis not limited to one-off situations. It may also appear with regularly occurring
  events, but the way of reacting to that event may change depending on some one-off circumstances.Caution
  - Although際にand時にmay overlap in certain situations,際にwill sound unnatural when the situation involves
  something that typically does not change, or always happens the same way.
examples:
  - japanese: この建物に入る際には、必ずヘルメットを被ってください。
    english: When entering this building, please wear a helmet.
  - japanese: この薬品が誤って肌に飛び散った際には、直ぐにかかりつけの医者に相談してください。
    english: If this chemical accidentally splashes onto your skin, consult your physician immediately.
  - japanese: 明日の面接の際には、印鑑を持ってきてください。
    english: Please bring your stamp when you come to the interview tomorrow.
  - japanese: 商品を並べる際に、注意しないといけない事はなんですか。
    english: Is there anything I should be careful about when arranging the products?
  - japanese: 車を動かす際には、周りに子供がいないか確認してください。
    english: When moving your car, please make sure there aren't any kids around.
  - japanese: 日本では家を出る時に行ってきますと言う。
    english: In Japan we say, 'I'm leaving,' when we leave the house. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 日本では家を出る際に行ってきますと言う。
    english: In Japan we say, 'I'm leaving,' when we leave the house. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 炎天下で働く際には帽子などを持ってきてください。
    english: When working under the scorching sun, remember to bring things like a hat.
  - japanese: 初めて沖縄に来た際に、綺麗な景色（ランドスケープ）に驚きました。今までそのような景色を見たことがなかったと思いました。
    english: When I visited Okinawa for the first time, I was surprised by the beautiful landscape. I
      had never seen anything like that before.
  - japanese: 鼻血、アレルギー反応などの症状の際には、直ちに最寄りの病院にご連絡ください。
    english: In case of symptoms like a bloody nose or an allergic reaction, please contact the nearest
      hospital right away.
  - japanese: トラブルと対策など質問：「海外旅行中にビザを無くした場合は、どうすればいいですか？」質問の答え：「その際は、最寄りの大使館に連絡をお願いします。」
    english: 'FAQ: ''What should I do if I lose my visa while traveling abroad?'' Answer: ''In that case,
      please contact the nearest embassy.'''
  - japanese: 看病の際に自分も感染しないように万全の体制を整えている。
    english: I am putting in place flawless systems to not get infected when I am caring for someone.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/際に
false_friends:
  - term: にあたり・にあたって
    meaning: When, When doing something, On the occasion, At the time
    kind: synonym
  - term: に際して
    meaning: On the occasion of, At the time of
    kind: synonym
  - term: とき
    meaning: When, At the time of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ついでに
    meaning: While you are at it, On the occasion
    kind: synonym
  - term: 折には
    meaning: When, Occasion, Opportunity, Time
    kind: synonym
