grammar_point: ということは
jlpt: N2
meaning: That means, That is to say
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ということはis a phrase in Japanese that often appears in the middle of sentences, expressing that
  the previous statement is something that is about to be clarified. This can be translated as 'that means',
  or 'that is to say'.ということはbased sentences will often finish withということだ, although it is not limited to
  appearing this way.The more literal translation is something similar 'that which is said to be (A),
  (B)'. In this way, it simply presents (A) as a thing that requires further explaining.Additionally,ということはwill
  appear at the beginning of sentences, when the speaker is confirming their understanding about something
  that has just been said. Often in the form of a question. In these cases, the translation is similar
  'so you mean to say that (A)?'.As can be seen from the breakdown of という, こと, and は, this statement just
  expresses that the 'thing' which is 'classified as' (A) is 'in general' understood to be (B).
examples:
  - japanese: あの有名なIT企業で働いているということは、結構いい大学を出たってこと？
    english: You work at a very famous IT company. That means that you graduated from a pretty good university,
      right?
  - japanese: 彼女から返事が来ないということは、今は忙しいということだろう。
    english: The fact that she hasn't responded to me means that she is probably busy at the moment.
  - japanese: 日本語を上手に話せるということは、日本に長い間住んでいたということですか。
    english: You can speak Japanese well. Does that mean that you have lived in Japan for a long time?
  - japanese: もう仕事終わったの？ということは、今日こそは一緒に晩御飯が食べれるということだね！
    english: You are already done with work!? That means that we can finally eat dinner together today!
  - japanese: 妊娠したの！？ということは、私はおばあちゃんになるってこと？！
    english: You are pregnant!? Does that mean that I am going to be a grandma?!
  - japanese: 彼が一人で旅に行くということは、大人になったということだ。
    english: He is going on a trip by himself. That is to say, he has become an adult.
  - japanese: 今日は祝日です。ということは、あのスーパーは閉まっていますか？
    english: Today is a national holiday. Does that mean that that supermarket is closed?
  - japanese: その机はIKEAで買ったの？ということは、自分で組み立てたの？
    english: Did you buy that desk at IKEA? Does that mean that you put it together yourself?
  - japanese: 自分で炊事するようになったということは、奥さん出て行ったの？
    english: You are now able to do your own cooking. Is that to say that your wife left you?
  - japanese: 血液がドロドロということは、水分が足りないということかもしれません。
    english: My blood is syrupy. That probably means that I am not getting enough water.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ということは
false_friends:
  - term: というのは
    meaning: ~ Known as ~ is, ~ Called ~ is, ~ Means ~, Because
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということ
    meaning: ~ing, The ~ that ~ (Nominalization)
    kind: synonym
  - term: つまり
    meaning: In short, To sum up, In other words
    kind: synonym
  - term: 即ち
    meaning: In other words, That is, Namely
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことなの
    meaning: (A) is (Description of A), (A) means that (Description of A)
    kind: synonym
