grammar_point: とも
jlpt: N2
meaning: Even if, No matter
meaning_warning: 少なくとも is a very common example of this construction which is also used in spoken Japanese.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ともis a particle that can be used either as a sentence-ending particle, conjunction particle,
  or adverbial particle. Despite this, the meanings are often interchangeable, and it depends mostly on
  what type of word they are grouped with as to which type of particle it is. Common interpretations ofともin
  almost any situation are 'even if (A)', or 'no matter if (A)', and it will basically always simply highlight
  that 'in spite of (A), still (B)'.As a conjunction particle,ともwill be paired with any words that are
  followed by theauxiliary verbsう, or よう, or after い-Adjectives in their conjunctive form.Theadverbial
  particleusage only appears after い-Adjectives in their conjunctive form, and a select number of adverbs.
  It is recommended not to use this structure after adverbs unless you have already seen it used this
  way in native material.
examples:
  - japanese: 親が何と言おうとも、私は彼と結婚するつもりだ。
    english: No matter what my parents say, I intend on marrying him.
  - japanese: 魚がどんなに暴れようとも、この糸は絶対に切れません。
    english: No matter how violent the fish thrashes around, this line will never break.
  - japanese: 人生がいくら辛くとも、諦めてはいけない。
    english: No matter how hard life is, you must not give up.
  - japanese: いくら下手であろうとも、毎日練習をしていればそのうち上手になれる。
    english: No matter how bad you are at it, if you practice every day, you will eventually get good
      at it.
  - japanese: 生徒が授業に出席しなくとも、教師はきちんと授業を進めていくべきだ。
    english: Even if students do not attend, the teacher should proceed with the lesson.
  - japanese: どんなことになろうとも、国家が破産するのはまずありえない。
    english: No matter what (becomes of it) , it is impossible for a country to go bankrupt.
  - japanese: どんなにタバコが好きであろうとも、赤ちゃんができたら吸うわけにはいかない。
    english: No matter how much you like cigarettes, if you get pregnant you can't smoke.
  - japanese: ため息が出ようとも、仕事はやり遂げなければなりません。
    english: Even if you sigh, you must get some work done.
  - japanese: 頂点には届かなくとも、行けるところまで行ってみよう。
    english: Even if we don't reach the summit, let's try to go as far as we can.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とも
false_friends:
  - term: ようが～まいが
    meaning: Even if, No matter what, Whether or not, [Emphatic], Volitional + が
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても
    meaning: Even though, Even if, Even when, Also
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとえ〜ても
    meaning: Even if…is the case, Supposing that
    kind: synonym
  - term: どうしても
    meaning: Regardless of, No matter what
    kind: synonym
