grammar_point: 見える
jlpt: N4
meaning: To be visible, To seem, To be in sight
meaning_warning: 見える was originally a conjugation of 見る, but nowadays we treat it as a standalone intransitive
  verb. It is also used in honorific speech, meaning “to come.”
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In the same way that聞こえるis used to describe things that are 'audible',見えるcan be used to describe
  things that are 'visible'.見えるitself is an intransitive verb, meaning that the object that is 'visible'
  will be marked withが.When using見える, (A) will always be followed byが. However, the 'way that something
  looks' will be marked adverbially. This means that anい-Adjectivewill be changed to its く form, andな-Adjectives/nouns
  will be followed byに.This usage of見えるwill be covered more in our focused lesson on this particular grammar
  structure.Fun FactThe primary difference between見える, and見られる(thepotentialform of見る), is that見えるis used
  to identify things that do not require the active concentration of the spectator to be seen. In other
  words, seeing it is unavoidable (if looking in its direction of course). However,見られるis used when the
  onlooker, is trying to concentrate on some specific object, and is referring to their 'ability' to see
  it.Fun Fact見えるis also sometimes used to describe the 'sense' of sight, and refers to whether anything
  is visible at all for the speaker.
examples:
  - japanese: この部屋からは富士山が見えます。
    english: Mount Fuji can be seen from this room.
  - japanese: 遠くに建物が見えるけどあれは何？
    english: I can see a building in the distance, but what is it?
  - japanese: パンツが見えるくらいズボンを下げて、先生に怒られた。
    english: My pants were sagging to the point where my underwear was visible, and I got scolded by my
      teacher.
  - japanese: ここからだと小さく見えるけど、あのビルは130メートルもある。
    english: From here, the building looks small, but it is 130 meters tall.
  - japanese: あの仕事は大変に見えるけど、簡単らしいよ。
    english: That job looks difficult, but I heard that it is easy.
  - japanese: 部屋を暗くして外を見たら、星が見えるよ。
    english: If you make your room dark and look outside, you will see the stars. (Even without trying,
      you will see them)
  - japanese: 部屋を暗くして外を見たら、星が見られるよ。
    english: If you make your room dark and look outside, you will see the stars. (If you focus past the
      clouds, and give your eyes some time to adjust)
  - japanese: 若い時に大きな怪我をしたからなにも見えない。
    english: Because of a big injury when I was young, I cannot see anything at all.
  - japanese: 「あの看板は大きいので、どこからでもよく見える。」
    english: '''Since that signboard is big, it can be seen from anywhere.'''
  - japanese: 「富士山はとても大きいから遠くからでもよく見える！」
    english: '''Mount Fuji is very big, so it can be clearly seen even from afar!'''
  - japanese: 雨がやんで、今でははっきりと見えるよ♪
    english: I can see clearly now, the rain is gone♪
  - japanese: 田舎は都会より明かりが少ないから星がよく見える。
    english: There is less light in the countryside than in cities, so stars are clearly visible.
  - japanese: 目が見えない人は聴覚が鋭い。
    english: Blind people often have a sharp sense of hearing. (Literally - People who cannot see)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/見える
false_friends:
  - term: れる・られる (Potential)
    meaning: To be able, Can (Potential)
    kind: synonym
  - term: がみられる
    meaning: Can see, Can be seen, Can observe, Can be observed, Be evident, Chance to see something
    kind: synonym
