grammar_point: びる
jlpt: N1
meaning: -like, Looking, Feeling, With an air of, To become
meaning_warning: Notice that 古びた and ひなびた are generally only used to modify (describe) nouns.
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: びる, like めく, is a verb that is used exclusively as asuffix. It is a る-Verb, and may be translated
  as '(A) looking', '(A) seeming', or 'behaving like (A)'.びるis quite formal, and will follow a limited
  set of expressions.びるwill appear after nouns, or occasionally the stem form of い-Adjectives.びるindicates
  that, according to the speaker, something 'gives off the sense of (A)', and is based on visual information.
  As it is a descriptive verb,びるwill change toびたwhen linked directly to a second noun.Fun FactBothびるand
  めく can be thought of as similar to さ, the structure that pairs with adjectives to create new nouns indicating
  an extent. This is due to the fact that whenびるor めく attach to a word, they turn that word itself into
  a verb that expresses 'having the feeling of (A)', or 'having gained the feeling of (A)' when used in
  past tense.
examples:
  - japanese: 実家で屋根裏部屋を掃除していたら、古びたアルバムが続々と出てきた。
    english: While cleaning out the attic at my parents' house, I found a series of old-looking albums.
  - japanese: 彼女は幼びて見えるけど、実際は33歳らしい。
    english: She is young-looking, but apparently she is 33 years old.
  - japanese: 彼女は大人びて見えるが、まだ社会のことなんて分かってないただの学生だ。
    english: She is adult-looking, but she is actually just a student that knows nothing about the real
      world.
  - japanese: この町は田舎びているから好きだ。
    english: I like this town because it is rural-like.
  - japanese: 私はどんなに治安が良くても、田舎びた町には住みたくない。
    english: No matter how safe it is, I don't want to live in a rural-looking town.
  - japanese: なぜ子供は大人びた格好をしたがるのだろうか。
    english: I wonder why kids tend to want to dress adult-like.
  - japanese: 小説、序章：「旭丘は日がのんびりとのどかに過ぎていく、海岸沿いのひなびた雰囲気が漂う漁村だった。」
    english: 'A novel, prologue: ''Asahigaoka was a coastal fishing village with a rustic feel to it,
      where time passed peacefully.'''
  - japanese: 小説：「ヴァミリオは大人びて見えるが、純粋で、表情がわかりやすい少女なのだ。」
    english: 'A novel: ''Vamirio looked mature-like, but she was a pure girl with easy-to-read facial
      expressions.'''
  - japanese: 小説：「古びた木橋は足を踏み出すたびに不穏な音がした。」
    english: 'A novel: ''The old-looking wooden bridge was making a disturbing noise with every step.'''
  - japanese: 一見するとひなびた小さな街ではあるが夏ともなると多くの観光客がこの街に来る。
    english: At first glance, it might be a small city with a rustic feel to it, but when the summer begins,
      numerous tourists come.
  - japanese: 「くみこは年の割に大人びている。」
    english: '''Kumiko feels mature for her age.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/びる
false_friends: []
