grammar_point: なぜなら〜から
jlpt: N3
meaning: Because, The reason is, That is because
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When combined with theconjunction particleから,なぜなら(orなぜならば) forms a set pattern that can be translated
  as 'why (A), that is because (B)'. Essentially, it is a way to highlight that a 'because' is coming
  at the end of the sentence, drawing attention to it.なぜならitself is aconjunctionthat is a combination
  of theadverb, なぜ 'why', and thehypothetical formofだ,なら. Literally,なぜなら～からis similar to 'why is (A) so,
  (B) is the cause'. This sounds quite dramatic in English, but is a perfectly natural way of emphasizing
  a statement/fact in Japanese.To useなぜなら～から, state that fact/important piece of information as (A). Then,
  at the beginning of a new sentence,なぜならwill be followed by the reason/cause, with から finishing the sentence.The
  primary function ofなぜならin Japanese (as opposed to simply using から orのでby itself) is to gain the attention
  of the listener, and inform them that important information is coming.
examples:
  - japanese: 明日は仕事に来ません。なぜなら、明日は友達の結婚式に行くからです。
    english: I will not come to work tomorrow. Why? That's because I will be going to my friends' wedding.
  - japanese: 卵を使わないで作ってください。なぜなら、私は卵アレルギーだからです。
    english: Please make it without using eggs. Why? Because I'm allergic to them.
  - japanese: 彼は泳ぎに行けなかった。なぜなら、寒かったから。
    english: He couldn't go swimming because it was cold.
  - japanese: すみませんが、正直に言えないんです。なぜなら、秘密だから。
    english: I'm sorry but I can't tell you truthfully. The reason is that it is a secret.
  - japanese: 彼らは来るかどうかわからない。なぜなら、まだ連絡がきていないからです。
    english: I don't know if they are coming or not because they haven't contacted me yet.
  - japanese: もうすぐ会えます。なぜなら、今度僕は日本に行くから。
    english: We can see each other soon. Why? Because I'll go to Japan next time.
  - japanese: 今日は仕事を休みました。なぜなら、インフルエンザにかかってしまったからです。
    english: I took the day off today. Why? Because I caught the flu.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なぜなら-から
false_friends:
  - term: から (because)
    meaning: Because, Since
    kind: synonym
  - term: ので
    meaning: Because, So, Since, The reason being
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～かというと ①
    meaning: Why? Well..., Why? Because..., If you ask me why..., The reason why is..., It is because...
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～かというと ②
    meaning: If you ask me..., If I had to say, If I were to say, If I were to choose one, I'd rather
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものだから
    meaning: Because, The reason is
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものですから・もので
    meaning: Because, My excuse is, My explanation is
    kind: synonym
  - term: もの・もん
    meaning: Because, Cause
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことだから
    meaning: It is exactly because
    kind: synonym
  - term: そのため(に)
    meaning: For that reason, Because of that, To that end
    kind: synonym
  - term: だって
    meaning: I heard/was said, Because, But, Even or also, Even if or even though
    kind: synonym
