grammar_point: をはじめ
jlpt: N3
meaning: Not only...but also..., Starting with
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When presenting a topic in Japanese as a 'starting point',を始めwill often be used to show any logic
  (or planned) progressions from that point. This is often translated as 'not only (A), but (B)', or 'starting
  with (A), (B)'.To useを始め, one noun will be highlighted as the starting point, before another (or several
  others) will appear in part (B) of the sentence.Due to sentences featuringをはじめplacing emphasis on (A)
  as a starting point, additional expressions such asとして(or とする) will sometimes be paired with it. These
  structures function to further emphasize (A), and are similar to 'with (A) as the starting point, (B)'.
examples:
  - japanese: この会社は車を始め、ロケットなども作っている。
    english: Not only does this company make cars, but it also makes rockets.
  - japanese: 私の近所には、公園をはじめ、博物館など、プラネタリウムがある。
    english: Not only is there a park in my neighborhood, but also a museum, and a planetarium.
  - japanese: ストリートファッションはアメリカを始めとして、世界中に進出していく。
    english: With America as the starting point, street fashion spread all over the world.
  - japanese: この商品には卵をはじめとする多くのアレルゲンが含まれている。
    english: Starting with eggs, there are many allergens in this product. (Eggs being the primary allergen)
  - japanese: 東京を始め、国内観光ツアーに行きます。
    english: I am going on a countrywide tour starting in Tokyo.
  - japanese: 日本語を始め、韓国語と中国語も学びたい。
    english: Starting with Japanese, I would also like to learn Korean and Chinese.
  - japanese: ヨーロッパを始め、世界中を旅行してみたいです。
    english: Starting in Europe, I want to travel the world.
  - japanese: 先生を始め、生徒たちにも教えてあげてください。
    english: Please teach teachers, as well as students.
  - japanese: パソコンを始め、その他の機器も導入するつもりだ。
    english: I plan to set up various devices, starting with computers.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/をはじめ
false_friends:
  - term: だけでなく
    meaning: Not only… but also
    kind: synonym
  - term: はもちろん
    meaning: Not only but also, Let alone, Not to mention, Of course
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかりでなく
    meaning: Not only…but also, As well as
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけでなく(て)～も
    meaning: Not only ~ but ~ also, Not just ~ but ~ also
    kind: synonym
  - term: に加えて
    meaning: Not only...but also, In addition, Not to mention
    kind: synonym
  - term: に限らず
    meaning: Not just, Not only… but also
    kind: synonym
  - term: を皮切りに
    meaning: Beginning of, Starting with
    kind: synonym
