grammar_point: Verb[て]
jlpt: N4
meaning: Please do for me (Casual request)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In casual speech,てくださいis often shortened toて. This usually comes across as being a friendly way
  to say 'please do (A)', but may sound like a very soft order, so is best used with friends/toward people
  of lower status.This nuance ofてis usually able to be identified by appearing at the end of a sentence.CautionSometimes,
  other forms ofてmay appear at the end of a sentence. This happens most often when the speaker has not
  actually finished speaking, but is thinking about what they want to say next. In these cases, the pronunciation
  ofてwill usually be extended (to highlight that the person is thinking).When emphasizing an apology,てmay
  also be used. For this nuance to be conveyed,てwill be attached to the 'reason' that the person is apologizing,
  and may be either positive or negative.
examples:
  - japanese: 午後からお客さんが来るから部屋を片付けて。
    english: We have guests coming over during the afternoon so please clean up your room. (Said by a
      parent to a child)
  - japanese: ペン貸して。
    english: Can you please lend me a pen?
  - japanese: 駅まで走っていって...
    english: I ran to the station and…
  - japanese: 約束を守れなくてすみません。
    english: I am sorry that I wasn't able to keep my promise.
  - japanese: タケシのジャケットに水をこぼしちゃってごめん。
    english: Takeshi, I am sorry that I spilled water on your jacket.
  - japanese: 「こしょうを取って。」
    english: '''(Please) pass me the pepper.'''
  - japanese: 「ちょっと待って。まだ聞きたいことがあるよ。」
    english: '''(Please) wait a second. I still have questions!'''
  - japanese: 「誰か助けて！」
    english: '''(Please) somebody help me!'''
  - japanese: 母親：「部屋を片付けてね。」子供：「うん。」
    english: 'Mother: ''(Please) tidy up your room, okay?''Child: ''Okay.'''
  - japanese: 「このポスターを貼っておいて。」
    english: '''(Please) put up this poster.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/verbて-request
false_friends:
  - term: てください
    meaning: Please do (Polite request)
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb + て
    meaning: And, Then (Linking events)
    kind: synonym
