grammar_point: 得る・得る
jlpt: N2
meaning: Is able to, Can, Possible
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 得るis a る-Verb that has the meaning of 'to gain', or 'to acquire'. When attached to theconjunctive
  formof verbs, it takes on the nuance of 'for (A) to be possible', or 'to be able to (A)'.Compared to
  できる, meaning that the potential to do something exists.得るmeans something closer to 'there is a possibility
  that (A) can be done', or 'the possibility to do (A) has been gained'.Caution -得るmay be seen as either
  える or うる. The primary difference between the two being that うる is a relatively old form that is often
  seen in literature, and spoken far less frequently than える. Despite this, there is a tendency for うる
  to be the preferred spoken choice when the kana that appears before it is え, such as教える becoming教えうる,
  rather than教ええる.Fun-fact -得るis far more formal/bookish than できる. However, there are several set phrases
  that are very common in daily speech that use this particular grammar point, such as あり得る'possible',
  and あり得ない'impossible'.
examples:
  - japanese: もし出来得るならば、2年後に会社を立ち上げたいと思っている。
    english: If it's possible, I'm thinking of starting a company in two years.
  - japanese: いくら気をつけていても、交通事故は起こり得るものだ。
    english: No matter how careful you are, it's possible for a car accident to occur.
  - japanese: そういう事はセクハラにもなりえるので、そういう事はやらない方がいい。
    english: Things like that can be considered as sexual harassment, so you shouldn't do that.
  - japanese: 考えうる事は、すべてこの企画書に書いておきました！
    english: I wrote everything I can think of on this proposal!
  - japanese: うん、それもあり得るね...
    english: Yeah, that is also a possibility...
  - japanese: 電気代がまた値上がりするみたいだよ。マジあり得ない。
    english: It looks like the electricity bill is going to go up again. There's no way.
  - japanese: 消防士は信頼し得る人です。
    english: Firefighters are people you can trust. (there is a possibility it can be done)
  - japanese: その対策は考え得る。
    english: It is possible to consider that countermeasure.
  - japanese: 耕し得る土地を持っている方は田植えができます。
    english: People who own arable land can plant rice. (can be farmed)
  - japanese: それはあり得る。
    english: That can be possible!
  - japanese: 彼は群衆の目にも耐え得る精神力の持ち主だ。
    english: He possesses the force of will to be able to endure the piercing eyes of the crowd. (there
      is a possibility that it can be endured)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/得る-得る
false_friends:
  - term: 〜得ない
    meaning: Unable to, Cannot
    kind: synonym
  - term: れる・られる (Potential)
    meaning: To be able, Can (Potential)
    kind: synonym
