grammar_point: Verb[volitional] + としたが
jlpt: N3
meaning: Tried to ~ but ~, Was about to ~ but ~, Was going to ~ but ~
meaning_warning: けど、けれど、けども、けれども are all acceptable.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As mentioned in ourようとするlesson, when combined with theauxiliary verbう (or よう), とする carries the
  meaning of 'to try to do (A)', or 'to be about to do (A)'. Thecase marking particleと in this expression
  highlights a 'result'.However, the addition of structures like theconjunction particlesが, orたら, to the
  past tense ofするwill indicate that something interrupted (A), and therefore it was unable to be completed.
  In these cases, the translation becomes 'to have tried to do (A), but (B)', 'was about to (A), but (B),
  or 'was on the verge of (A), but (B)'.う and よう mark volition (the express intent to do something), while
  とする adds the nuance that the express intent has been decided, and all that remains is to 'do' the action.
  Due to this, when something interrupts aようとするverb, it strongly suggests that (B) is/was highly unanticipated.
examples:
  - japanese: クライアントに電話を掛けようとしたが、夜遅かったので朝まで待つことにした。
    english: I tried to make a phone call to our client, but it was late at night so I decided to wait
      until morning.
  - japanese: 池で泳ごうとしたら、警察に止められた。
    english: I was stopped by the police when I was about to swim in the lake.
  - japanese: 逃げようとしたけど、捕まったら大変なことになるから逃げなかった。
    english: I was about to run away, but if I got caught, it would have become a bigger deal, so I didn't.
  - japanese: 僕と彼は同時にジャンプしようとしたけれど、失敗した。
    english: He and I both tried to jump at the same time, but messed up.
  - japanese: 私は彼女の手伝いをしようとしたが、断られた。
    english: I tried to offer my help, but was rejected.
  - japanese: 彼は徹夜しようとしたけれど寝てしまった。
    english: He tried to pull an all-nighter, but fell asleep.
  - japanese: 犯人は逃げようとしたが、すぐに警察が犯人を取り押さえた。
    english: The criminal tried to run, but the police subdued him.
  - japanese: 勉強しようとしたが、あまりにも疲れていたのでやめました。
    english: I tried to study, but I was too tired and I gave up.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/verb-volitional-としたが
false_friends:
  - term: Verb[volitional]とする
    meaning: Try to, Attempt to, To be about to
    kind: synonym
