grammar_point: から (because)
jlpt: N5
meaning: Because, Since
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Part of Speech: Case Marking Particle
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 助詞
  単語の種類: 格助詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: から can have several different meanings in Japanese, depending on which part of the sentence it
  is in, and what comes before/after it. It is often translated as 'because', or 'since'. In these cases,
  it just means 'Because of (A), (B)'.から may be used with almost any type of word, but when the nuance
  is 'because', it will require だ before it when following a noun or な-Adjective .Despite having several
  different nuances, it may be easier to think of から as meaning 'from' in all situations, as that is the
  base nuance.From (A as a reason), (B) = Because/Since.From (A as a location), (B) = From.Fun Factから
  is a special type of particle in Japanese called a case marking particle . These are particles that
  describe the relationship that (A) and (B) exist in. We will learn more about these soon!
examples:
  - japanese: 私は犬が好きですから。
    english: Because I like dogs.
  - japanese: 私は毎日勉強したから、昨日のテストは簡単でした。
    english: Because I studied every day, yesterday's test was easy.
  - japanese: 明日は月曜日だから、仕事に行く。
    english: Because tomorrow is Monday, I will go to work.
  - japanese: 学生がいるから、学校があるだろう。
    english: Because there are students, there is a school, right?
  - japanese: スポーツをしたから、暑いです。
    english: Because I played sports, I am hot.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/から-because
false_friends:
  - term: ものだから
    meaning: Because, The reason is
    kind: synonym
  - term: もの・もん
    meaning: Because, Cause
    kind: synonym
  - term: ので
    meaning: Because, So, Since, The reason being
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものですから・もので
    meaning: Because, My excuse is, My explanation is
    kind: synonym
  - term: なぜなら〜から
    meaning: Because, The reason is, That is because
    kind: synonym
  - term: からこそ
    meaning: Emphasized because, Precisely because
    kind: synonym
  - term: したがって
    meaning: Therefore, Thus, As a result
    kind: synonym
  - term: し～し
    meaning: And, Giving reasons
    kind: synonym
