grammar_point: をよそに
jlpt: N1
meaning: Ignoring, Disregarding, Despite
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: を余所にis used to express that (A) is something that effectively has nothing to do with the speaker,
  or that the speaker is ignoring it in relation to something else. It may be translated as 'ignoring
  (A)', or 'disregarding (A)'. It is a combination of theadverbial particleを, the noun余所'other place',
  and the case-marking particle に. Due to this, its literal meaning is close to 'putting (A) completely
  aside, (B)'.This structure will follow nouns, or phrases that have been nominalized with の. It is reasonably
  formal, so will be seen more often in writing.The most common pattern forをよそにto follow is that (A) expresses
  some overall situation, while (B) indicates an action that is being done without any thought or care
  given toward those circumstances. Because of this, it is often used critically about actions that are
  seen as irresponsible.CautionWhile this grammar point will primarily highlight the actions of people,
  it will not be used to refer to the speaker's own actions.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は親の心配をよそに、毎晩夜遅くまで友達たちと遊んでいる。
    english: Ignoring his parent's worries, he hangs out with his friends every night until late at night.
  - japanese: 社長は社員の反対をよそに、仕事の効率を上げるために休憩所を撤去した。
    english: Ignoring objections from his workers, the president got rid of the break room inorder to
      increase efficiency.
  - japanese: 彼は周囲の視線をよそに、コンビニの店員に暴言を吐き続けていた。
    english: Ignoring the eyes of those around him, he continued to lash out on the convenience store
      worker.
  - japanese: 私は両親の反対をよそに、彼と結婚することにした。
    english: Ignoring my parents' objections, I decided to marry him. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 母の心配を余所に、彼は商船の船員になった。
    english: Ignoring his mother's worries, he has become a merchant seaman.
  - japanese: メアリーと武は親の反対 を余所に一緒になった。
    english: Ignoring objections from their parents, Mary and Takeshi got together.
  - japanese: 私たちがその衝撃的な言葉の意味をまだ飲み込めてないの を余所に彼女は説明を続けた。
    english: Ignoring that we still haven't digested the meaning of her shocking remark, she continued
      the explanation.
  - japanese: ピーターは周りの忠告 を余所に、MMORPGゲームばかりすることを存分に楽しんだ。
    english: Ignoring the advice of those close to him, Peter does nothing but play MMORPG games to his
      heart's content
  - japanese: 地域住民の反対の声 を余所に、自治体が空港建設の計画を進めている。
    english: Ignoring the voices of opposition, the local government carries forward the plan of airport
      construction.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/をよそに
false_friends: []
