grammar_point: のなんのって
jlpt: N1
meaning: So much that, Extremely, Very
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Casual
  使用域: タメ語
writeup: のなんのってis a casual phrase that is used inspoken Japaneseto indicate that the word before it is
  'excessively (A)', or 'extremely (A)'. This structure consists of thecase marking particleの, thepre-noun
  adjectival何の 'what kind of', and って, an abbreviation of という 'to say'.The literal meaning of 'and to
  say it's (A) or something' just indicates that something is so (A) that if it is not that then the speaker
  doesn't know what to call it.This structure will be seen after い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives followed by
  な, and verbs.のなんのってitself is a more condensed variation of～の～ないのって, which has the same meaning, but
  has (A) appear in both the positive and negative for 'to say it's (A) or not (A), (B)', where (B) will
  usually be a phrase explaining the extent of (A). Occasionally (B) will be left unsaid, as～の～ないのってitself
  is always used to mean 'extremely (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: あんな痩せているのにあの量一人で食べちゃうなんて、びっくりしたのなんのって。
    english: I was extremely surprised that such a skinny guy could eat that amount of food all by himself.
  - japanese: 名古屋の夏は暑いのなんのって、外に出た瞬間シャツが汗でびっしょりになるんだよ。
    english: It is so hot in Nagoya in the summer that the moment you step outside, your shirt will be
      drenched in sweat.
  - japanese: あの建物は丈夫なのなんのって、去年あった深度７の地震までも耐えたんだよ。
    english: That building is so sturdy that it even withstood last year's earthquake that measured 7
      on the Japanese seismic scale.
  - japanese: 彼は食べるの食べないのって、30分で3キロも肉を一人で食べた。
    english: He eats so much that he ate 3 kg of meat in 30 minutes all by himself.
  - japanese: あのジェットコースターは大人でも失神するほど怖いの怖くないのって。
    english: That rollercoaster is so scary that even an adult would pass out.
  - japanese: A：「疲れた顔だね。」B：「昨日は騒音で眠れなかったから、もう眠いのなんのって・・・」
    english: 'A: ''You look tired!''B: ''I couldn''t sleep yesterday because it was noisy, so I am already
      extremely sleepy…'''
  - japanese: 友達は日帰り旅行について話す、A：「で、お腹がすいてなかった？」B：「そりゃお腹がすいたのなんのって、一人でご飯３杯も食べたよ。」
    english: 'Friends talking about a day trip, A: ''And then? Weren''t you hungry?''B: ''I was extremely
      hungry. I ate three bowls of rice by myself!'''
  - japanese: A：「今買ったケーキはどう？食べてみたい。」B：「ケーキおいしいのなんのって、もう完食しちゃったほど。」
    english: 'A: ''How is the cake we bought today? I want to try.''B: ''It was so delicious (to the point)
      that I ate it all already.'''
  - japanese: A：「田舎はどうだった？」B：「よかったよ。静かなのなんのって虫の音が聞こえる。とてもリラックスできた。」
    english: 'A: ''How was the countryside?''B: ''Great! It was so quiet that one could hear the insects
      chirping. I was really able to relax.'''
  - japanese: 「あそこのエンジニアが下手クソでさ。修理が上手くないのなんのって。修理から一日経っただけでまた壊れたんだよ。」
    english: '''That engineer is absolutely terrible (at his job). He is extremely unskillful! Only one
      day after ''repairs'' it broke again.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/のなんのって
false_friends: []
