grammar_point: だけに
jlpt: N2
meaning: As might be expected, Because, All the more because, It's only natural
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: だけにis a grammar pattern that is often translated as 'as might be expected of (A)', 'it's only
  natural due to (A)', or simply 'because of (A)'. Being a combination of だけ 'just', and に 'to', the literal
  meaning is 'just in that it's (A)', and is similar to the counterpart phrase in English.だけにmay be used
  when highlighting either positive or negative results that came about due to (A), and will appear after
  verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives that have been followed by な, or nouns.Also,だけにmay be used when highlighting
  that specifically because of (A), (B) is considered a level above what would usually be expected. This
  can be in terms of difficulty, emotional reaction, volume, or anything else that is quantifiable.Fun-fact
  - With any of these meanings, the equivalent 'just in that it's (A)' English expression can be utilized
  as an accurate interpretation, as both it and だけに often just draw the listener's attention to (A), in
  order to show that (B) is noteworthy because of it.
examples:
  - japanese: トムさんは日本語を8年勉強しているだけに、日本語がペラペラだ。
    english: Tom has been studying Japanese for 8 years and as one might expect, he is fluent in Japanese.
  - japanese: このアパートは東京駅に近いだけに、家賃が高い。
    english: This apartment is very close to Tokyo station, and as one might expect, the rent is expensive.
  - japanese: このアプリは便利なだけに、どんどんとユーザーが増えてきています。
    english: This application is becoming more and more popular just because it is so useful.
  - japanese: 夏休みであるだけに、海水浴場には人がたくさんいる。
    english: It is summer vacation and as one might expect, there are a lot of people at the beach.
  - japanese: 合格したと思っていただけに、不合格と知った時はとてもショックだった。
    english: I was very shocked when I learned that I had been rejected because I thought I had passed.
  - japanese: 普段は優しいだけに、彼女が怒っている姿を見た時はびっくりしました。
    english: I was surprised to see her angry because she is usually so kind.
  - japanese: 彼は子供の頃からそろばんを習っているだけに、暗算がとてもうまい。
    english: Just in that he has been learning the abacus since childhood, he is very good at mental math.
  - japanese: この車は最新だけに、椅子のヒーターもあります。
    english: This is a brand new car and as one might expect, it comes with heated seats.
  - japanese: 年を取ってきただけに、出来なくなったことが多い。
    english: As one might expect with aging, there are a lot of things you can no longer do.
  - japanese: 彼は経験が長いだけに、自信を持って演説ができた。
    english: As one might expect from his extensive experience, he confidently gave the speech.
  - japanese: 彼は有名な司会者だけに、臨機応変に対応できます。
    english: As one might expect from him being a famous moderator, he can adapt himself to deal with
      it.
  - japanese: プロ棋士だけに、将棋との向き合い方が半端じゃない。
    english: As one might expect from a professional shogi player, the way he approaches the game is not
      careless.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だけに
false_friends:
  - term: わけだ
    meaning: For that reason, No wonder, As you'd expect, Naturally, Thus, This is why
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけあって
    meaning: Is only natural, …Being the case, Because, As might be expected
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけのことはある
    meaning: No wonder, Not surprising that, As expected
    kind: synonym
