grammar_point: ならでは
jlpt: N1
meaning: Unique to, Only, Impossible if not, Expected only of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ならではis a construction which indicates that something is 'unique to (A)', or 'impossible if not
  (A)'. Whileならではis usually considered as its own standalone word, it is actually just a combination of
  the negative-conjunctive formof the the classical copula なり, ならで, with the addition of theadverbial
  particleは.ならではwill follow nouns, and the sentence will then usually go on to say what the thing is that
  is unique to (A).As seen in the above examples,ならではwill only be used when something is being evaluated
  positively. As a result of this, it is very common to see in advertising and slogans.Cautionならではmay
  be seen directly before theauxiliary verbだ. In these cases, the thing that is unique to (A) will have
  been expressed earlier in the sentence, or will be obvious from context.Based on the history ofならでは,
  the structure being the negative-conjunctive formof the copula なり means that it is basically identical
  in meaning of the more modern でなくては 'if it isn't (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 味噌カツは名古屋ならではの食べ物です。
    english: Misokatsu is a food unique to Nagoya.
  - japanese: アメリカならではの観光地といったらどこを連想しますか。
    english: Where do you think is a tourist attraction that is unique to the States?
  - japanese: この祭りはこの地域ならではの祭りです。
    english: This festival is unique to this area.
  - japanese: こんな綺麗な作品を作れるのは、藤田さんならではだ。
    english: Only you, Fujita-san, can create such an amazing piece.
  - japanese: 車なしで生活できるのは都会ならではだ。
    english: Only in the city can one live without a car.
  - japanese: 求人のサイト、求人情報：「小さいカフェならではの良さが溢れています。」
    english: 'Job search website, job information: ''The charm unique to a small cafe is overflowing.'''
  - japanese: 広告ポスター：「沖縄ならではの、普段は見られない透明度の高い青い海は必見だ。」
    english: 'A poster ad: ''The extremely clear blue waters that can usually only be seen in Okinawa
      are a must-see.'' (unique to)'
  - japanese: 本のおすすめ記事：「そのようなマンガやアニメなどの小ネタっぽいライトノベルを書き上げるのはさすが西尾維新先生ならではです。」
    english: 'A book recommendation article: ''The one who can write a light novel filled with small joke
      references to manga and anime is unique to Nishio Ishin.'''
  - japanese: お茶の広告：「ハイクオリティな紅茶ならではの味わい！〇〇紅茶ティーバッグ３０バッグ入」「すっきりと香り高く澄み切った味です！」
    english: 'Tea advertisement: ''A flavor only possible with high-quality tea! XX tea bags, 30 bags
      included.''''A serene, refreshing, and aromatic taste!'''
  - japanese: 求人のサイト、店員コメント：「こうした社風の良さは当社ならではだと思います。」
    english: 'Job search website, employee comment: ''I think that the good quality of our corporate culture
      is unique to this company.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ならでは
false_friends: []
