grammar_point: Verb[よう]
jlpt: N4
meaning: Let's, I shall (Casual volitional)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: よう(andう) are grammar constructions that function in a similar way toましょう, or to be more precise,ましょうis
  the polite (conjugated) form of theseauxiliary verbs. They are used as a casual way of expressing 'let's'
  when making suggestions, or 'I shall' when making statements.ようis only one of the potential forms of
  this grammar point, and can actually be divided into two separateauxiliary verbs,う(used withう-Verbs),
  andよう(used withる-Verbs,する, andくる).When attachingうtoう-Verbs, simply replace the last kana with the equivalent
  お sound kana from within the same column (く becomes こ, う becomes お, す becomes そ, etc.), before addingう.
  Forる-Verbs, replace る withよう.As with many other verb conjugations,するandくるbehave in a slightly different
  way to regularう-Verbsandる-Verbs.するwill become しよう, whileくるwill become こよう.The type of statements thatう,
  andようcan be used for in Japanese are usually divided into three categories.推量- Expresses guesses (has
  a similar meaning toだろう, which itself is theようform ofだ)意志- Expresses intentions (has a similar meaning
  to～するつもりだ)勧誘- Expresses invitations or encouragement (has a similar meaning to誘う 'to invite')CautionAlthoughようis
  used withる-Verbs,する, andくる, it should not be confused withようだ, anotherauxiliary verbthat is used when
  describing likeness (in a similar way toそうだ).
examples:
  - japanese: 今夜は先輩の試合を見に行こう！
    english: Tonight, let's go watch the senpai's tournament!
  - japanese: 早く食べよう。
    english: Let's eat already!
  - japanese: 私が運転しようか？
    english: Shall I drive?
  - japanese: 今日はお金が無いから明日こよう。
    english: I don't have money today, so let's come tomorrow.
  - japanese: 毎日スポーツをしよう。
    english: Let's play sports every day.
  - japanese: 朝ご飯を食べに行こう。
    english: Let's go out to eat for breakfast.
  - japanese: 今日は早く帰ろう。
    english: Let's go home early today.
  - japanese: 日本語を勉強しなくてはいけない。頑張ろう！
    english: We have to study Japanese. Let's do our best!
  - japanese: 天気は雨でも晴れでもハイキングに行こうね。
    english: Rain or shine, let's go hiking.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/よう-おう
false_friends:
  - term: 〜ようとしない
    meaning: Not willing to, Not make an effort to, To not attempt or try to, Volitional + としない
    kind: synonym
  - term: Verb[volitional]とする
    meaning: Try to, Attempt to, To be about to
    kind: synonym
  - term: 〜ようではないか
    meaning: Let's do something, Why don't we
    kind: synonym
  - term: ましょう
    meaning: Let's, Shall we (Polite volitional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～ましょうか
    meaning: Shall we, Shall I
    kind: synonym
  - term: 〜ようと思う・〜おうと思う
    meaning: I think I will, I think I shall, Going to, Gonna (Volitional + と思う)
    kind: synonym
