grammar_point: に決まっている
jlpt: N2
meaning: Surely, Bound to, Certainly, Be decided
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: に決まっているis a strong expression which indicates that (A) is something that the speaker either strongly
  believes to be true (but cannot confirm), or that they believe that (A) is only natural. These meanings
  primarily end up being translated as 'surely (A)', 'bound to be (A)', or 'certainly (A)'. As this structure
  is a combination of に and the ている-form of the う-Verb決まる 'to decide', the closest literal translation
  is 'for (A) to be decisively the case'.に決まっているmay appear directly following verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives
  or nouns.に決まっているprimarily focuses on the speaker's subjective opinion about (A). This means that it
  takes into consideration their own preformed opinions or thoughts about (A), regardless of what the
  actual facts may be.
examples:
  - japanese: あの選手は足が速いから勝つに決まっている。
    english: That athlete is fast at running, so they are bound to win.
  - japanese: いくらクリフダイビングのプロでも、あの高さからダイブするのは怖いに決まってる。
    english: Diving off a cliff that high is surely scary, even for a professional cliff diver.
  - japanese: この家はあの有名な建設会社が建てた家だから、丈夫に決まってる。
    english: This house was built by that famous construction company, so it is bound to be sturdy.
  - japanese: あの人はみんなに好かれているからいい人に決まっている。
    english: That person is liked by everyone, so he is bound to be a good person.
  - japanese: Linuxオタク：「2018はデスクトップLinuxの年になるに決まっている！」
    english: 'Linux Nerd: ''2018 is bound to be the year of Linux on the desktop.'''
  - japanese: 妻：「晩御飯、気に入ってくれたの？」 夫：「あなたが作った料理だから、おいしいに決まっているよ。」
    english: 'Wife: ''Did you enjoy the dinner?'' Husband: ''Any meal made by you is bound to be delicious.'''
  - japanese: 毎日お菓子を食べることはダメに決まっている！
    english: Eating sweets every day is certainly no good!
  - japanese: 優秀な職人はいつもいい仕事を見つけるに決まっている。
    english: Excellent craftsmen are bound to always find good jobs.
  - japanese: 彼のことだから、あいかわらずいい人に決まっている。
    english: Since it is him, he is bound to be a good person.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に決まっている
false_friends:
  - term: にする
    meaning: To decide on, To choose, To make something into, To view something as
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことになる
    meaning: It will end up being, It is the result of, It has been decided that
    kind: synonym
  - term: に違いない
    meaning: There is no doubt that, I'm sure
    kind: synonym
