grammar_point: さぞ
jlpt: N1
meaning: You must be very, How … you must be, I dare to say, I am sure or certain that you must be very
meaning_warning: sometimes used with ことと思う、ことと存じる、に間違いない
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: さぞis a fairly formaladverbin Japanese that is used emphatically to highlight that the following
  statement is something that the speaker understands to be true. This is often in relation to the feelings
  or situation of another. Common translations include 'you must be very (A)', 'how (A) you must be',
  or 'I dare say that (A)'. 'I dare to say that (A)' is probably the closest to the literal meaning ofさぞ,
  as the speaker is empathizing with someone else by trying to imagine the situation from their point
  of view.Asさぞis an adverb, it will usually appear at the beginning of a sentence, modifying the whole
  phrase that follows.The phrase followingさぞwill often finish with だろう or でしょう. This highlights the speaker's
  opinion about the situation as being limited by their own knowledge.Cautionさぞcomes from the kanji嘸,
  which has two alternative readings,嘸や, and嘸かし. Both嘸や, and嘸かし are occasionally used as even further
  emphasized versions ofさぞ.Despite being almost identical in meaning, さぞかし is used more often than さぞや.
examples:
  - japanese: あの一流企業で働いているなら、さぞいいところに住んでいるんでしょう。
    english: If you work for that prestigious company, you must live in a very nice place.
  - japanese: おばあさんが急に入院されて、さぞご心配でしょう。
    english: Your grandmother's sudden hospitalization must be very worrisome.
  - japanese: あんなニコニコしている斎藤さんは初めて見た。さぞ嬉しい出来事があったんでしょう。
    english: I had never seen Saito-san smiling like that before. He must have had something good happen
      to him.
  - japanese: あんなに大切にしていた車を盗まれたなんて、さぞや悔しかっただろう。
    english: You must have been so frustrated to have such a cherished car stolen.
  - japanese: あの人が彼の父だなんて、さぞかし驚いただろう。
    english: He must have been very surprised that that man was his father.
  - japanese: 「夜勤の仕事もさぞ大変だろう。」
    english: How tough the night shift work must be!
  - japanese: 「智子は昇進が見送られて、さぞがっかりしたに違いない。」
    english: Not getting the promotion, Satoko must be very disappointed. (How disappointed Satoko must
      be after not getting the promotion!)
  - japanese: 「初めての赤ちゃんのお誕生にさぞ嬉しいことでしょう。」
    english: You must be very happy to have your first child. (How happy you must be to have your first
      child!)
  - japanese: 硬い手紙：「ご子息様のこと、さぞご心配のことと思います。」
    english: 'Formal letter: ''You must be very worried about your son.'' (''How worried you must be about
      your son!'')'
  - japanese: 「家族が一生懸命働いているのに、あなただけ毎日遊んでいるだけ、さぞ楽しいでしょうね！」
    english: '''Even though your family is working so hard, you are just having fun, how fun it must be!'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/さぞ
false_friends: []
