grammar_point: わけではない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Not necessarily so, Is not always true, There is no guarantee that
meaning_warning: では can be replaced with じゃ
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As mentioned in the訳だ grammar point, わけ is anounthat is used for strong determination/conclusion
  in Japanese, in the same way that 'so' is in English. Naturally, this determination may sometimes be
  negative, as is the case with わけではない. ではない being the conjugated form of theauxiliary verbだ, theadverbial
  particleは, and theい-Adjectiveない.わけではない may be translated as 'it doesn't mean that (A)', or 'it's not
  the case that (A)'. Although, 'it is not necessarily so that it's (A)', or 'so it's not (A)' are closer
  to the actual nuance of わけ. わけではない can be used at the end of any sentence, so long as the word before
  わけ is inattributive form.As always, では may be replaced by じゃ.Fun Factわけだand わけではない match the explanatory
  meaning of 'so' in English that often replaces words like 'because' and 'since'. However, as we will
  examine in more detail in theわけがないgrammar point, わけ also matches the emphatic nuance of 'so', as can
  be seen in statements like 'it's SO not (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 日本に住んでいるから日本語を話せるわけではないです。私は日本に来る前に日本語の勉強をしていました。
    english: It is not the case that I am able to speak Japanese because I live in Japan. I studied Japanese
      before I came.
  - japanese: 私の家は広いわけではないけど、小さくもない。
    english: It is not necessarily that my house is big, but it is not small either.
  - japanese: 仕事が大変なわけではない。忙しいだけ。
    english: It's not that my job is difficult, it's just busy.
  - japanese: 熱のわけではないけど、体がだるい。
    english: It's not necessarily that I have a fever, but my body feels heavy.
  - japanese: あの監督は有名だけど、映画を監督して有名になったわけじゃない。
    english: That director is famous, but he did not become popular because he directed a movie.
  - japanese: あなたが悪かったって言っているわけじゃない。
    english: It's not that I am saying that you were in the wrong. (I am not strictly saying that you
      were in the wrong)
  - japanese: あなたの事が嫌いというわけではない。
    english: It's not necessarily so that I dislike you. (But I sure don't love you)
  - japanese: あなたの事が嫌いというわけがない。
    english: I so don't dislike you. (I don't dislike you at all)
  - japanese: A：「北海道といえば、Cさんによれば一年中寒いらしい。」 B：「夏でも寒いわけではない。」
    english: 'A: ''Speaking of Hokkaido, according to C it is cold there all year long.'' B: ''It doesn''t
      mean it is cold even in summer.'''
  - japanese: A：「Cさんは日本に十年以上住んでる。日本語が上手だろうね。」 B：「日本に長い間住んでも、日本語を話せるわけではないよ。」
    english: 'A: ''C has been living in Japan for over ten years. His Japanese is probably amazing, right?''
      B: ''Even if he has lived in Japan for a long time it doesn''t mean he can speak Japanese.'''
  - japanese: A：「天気予報によると明日は晴れるだろう。」 B：「雨が降らないわけではない。」
    english: 'A: ''The weather forecast calls for clear skies tomorrow.'' B: ''It doesn''t mean it won''t
      rain.'''
  - japanese: A：「また試合に負けたよ。もう我慢できない！泣いちゃいたい！」 B：「いつもうまくいくわけではない。失敗はつきものだ。」
    english: 'A: ''I lost a match again! I can''t stand it anymore! I want to cry!'' B: ''It is not the
      case that things will always turn out well. Failures are an unavoidable part of life.'''
  - japanese: A：「あなたはデートを忘れたわ！私は腹が立っているから話しかけないで！」 B：「遅くなってしまいましたが、忘れていたわけではありませんよ。」
    english: 'A: ''You forgot about our date! I am angry, so don''t speak to me!'' B: ''I may have been
      late, but that doesn''t mean that I forgot.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/わけではない
false_friends:
  - term: というものでもない
    meaning: There is no guarantee that…, Not necessarily
    kind: synonym
  - term: はずがない
    meaning: Hardly possible, Cannot be, Highly unlikely, Improbable
    kind: synonym
  - term: というわけではない
    meaning: It is not that, It doesn't mean that, It is not always the case
    kind: synonym
  - term: わけがない
    meaning: There is no way, There is no reason, It is impossible, Cannot be
    kind: synonym
  - term: とは限らない
    meaning: Not necessarily so, Is not always true, There is no guarantee that
    kind: synonym
