grammar_point: さえ
jlpt: N3
meaning: Even
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: さえis anadverbial particlein Japanese that is used to place emphasis on something existing in
  certain state. It is often translated as 'even'.さえhas three primary meanings, which are as follows:Analogical
  Reasoning:類推- Analogy, (A) is an outstanding example of something.Limit:限定- Limit, (A) is all that is
  needed for something.Addition:添加- (A) compounds something that is pre-existing.さえis regularly paired
  with other particles and is often followed by verbs in negative form, with the overall meaning usually
  being determined by what part (B) of the sentence is conveying. Let's look at a few examples.In each
  of these cases, we can see howさえis showing that (A) is an extreme example of something.Fun Factは, も,
  でも, andさえare alladverbial particlesthat can be thought of as having a relationship toward, and away
  from what is 'expected' in any given situation. This relationship can be seen here:(A) は - (A) is completely
  expected, there is nothing unusual.(A) も - (A) will be included as part of what is expected, but can
  be unusual.(A) でも - (A) may or may not be included as part of what is expected, and can be unusual.(A)さえ-
  (A) is separated completely from what is expected, and is unusual.Due to this unexpected and unusual
  situation thatさえalways presents, it is regularly translated as 'let alone (A)', or 'not to mention (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 上級者の彼でさえ出来ないのに、あなたが出来るわけがないでしょう。
    english: Even someone in the advanced class level can't do it, there is no way you can do it.
  - japanese: 彼女は親にさえ知らせずに彼氏と結婚をした。
    english: She got married to her boyfriend, even without telling her parents.
  - japanese: 彼はストレスのせいで、晩飯を食べることさえ出来なくなった。
    english: Due to him being stressed, he couldn't even eat.
  - japanese: タナカ君は酷くない？彼女を傷つけたのに、謝りさえしなかったらしいよ。
    english: Don't you think Tanaka-kun is a jerk? He hurt his girlfriend, but he didn't even apologize.
  - japanese: そんなの放っておいてさえいたら、すぐ直るよ。
    english: Even if you leave it as it is, it will get well quickly.
  - japanese: このレベルはプロでさえ難しいというのに、よくできたね。
    english: I am impressed you were able to do this, let alone that it is difficult even for professionals.
  - japanese: トムがこんなに漢字を知っているのは凄いと思うよ。日本人でさえ漢字は難しいのに。
    english: Tom, I think it is impressive that you know this many kanji. Not to mention that it is difficult
      even for Japanese people.
  - japanese: 富士山の頂上は夏でさえ寒い。
    english: It is cold on the summit of Mt. Fuji even in summer.
  - japanese: そんな初歩的なことは、子供でさえ知っている。
    english: Even children know things that basic.
  - japanese: 小さい戦いさえ、私はしたことがない。
    english: I've never even been in a small fight.
  - japanese: 祖父は若い頃、戦時中に遠くまで戦闘に向かった。日本にさえ戦いに行ったことがある。
    english: When my grandfather was young, he fought in far off lands during the war. He even went to
      Japan.
  - japanese: あのことについてさえ知っているんです。
    english: I even know about that thing.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/さえ
false_friends:
  - term: まで
    meaning: Even, To even, To the extent of
    kind: synonym
  - term: 割に
    meaning: Although, Despite, Rather...for, Unexpectedly, Comparatively, Considering
    kind: synonym
  - term: ても
    meaning: Even if, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: さえ〜ば
    meaning: If only…then, As long as..., Provided..., Only thing ... needs for ... is ...
    kind: synonym
