grammar_point: に至るまで
jlpt: N1
meaning: (Everything) from...to..., From…up until..., Starting with...ending with...
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 至 る is an う-Verb which can be roughly translated as 'to attain (A)', or 'to reach the climax
  of (A)'. This verb is seen in several different grammar structures that all basically highlight that
  some extreme or unexpected extent is being reached. When paired with に and まで, に至るまで is often interpreted
  as 'everything from (A) to (B)'.Comparative statements such as から or より frequently come directly after
  (A), while に至るまで will come directly after (B). This marks (B) as the 'extreme' extent. Both (A) and
  (B) will either be nouns or noun phrases.The 'to reach a climax' meaning of 至 る itself can be used as
  an indicator that grammar points that use this verb all indicate some kind of exceptionally wide range
  between (A) and (B). Due to this, 至 るまで can be thought of as simply a strong emphasis of まで by itself,
  which also marks an extent.
examples:
  - japanese: 石川県にある「法師」旅館は718年から今に至るまで1300年以上商いし続けている。
    english: The Japanese-style inn called 'Houshi' that is located in Ishikawa prefecture has been operating
      continuously for over 1300 years from 718 right up until now.
  - japanese: にしまさんはバーテンダーから大企業の社長に至るまでいろいろな仕事を歴任した。
    english: Nishima-san held various positions, from a bartender to a president of a large company.
  - japanese: 今日では、CPUはパソコンから歯ブラシに至るまで、さまざまな装置に見られる。
    english: Nowadays, CPUs can be found in various kinds of devices, from computers to toothbrushes,
      etc.
  - japanese: アジアでは、箸は昔より現在に至るまで長きに渡って、食べるために使われている。
    english: In Asia, Chopsticks have been used to eat for a long time, from long ago to the present.
  - japanese: 国税庁に調べられるとき、銀行口座のお金の額から１０年前の金曜の朝にお弁当にいくらで買ったかに至るまで何でもチェックされる。
    english: When you are investigated by a national tax agency everything is checked, from money in your
      bank account to how much you spent on a bentou, Friday morning 10 years ago.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に至るまで
false_friends: []
