grammar_point: ことになっている
jlpt: N2
meaning: To be expected to, To be scheduled to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ことになっているis an alternation ofことになる, a grammar point showing that something has been decided by
  someone other than the speaker. It is a combination of the nominalizing use of こと (for creating noun-phrases),
  and the ている-form of the う-Verb なる 'to become'. The primary difference betweenことになるandことになっているis that
  the latter focuses more on that something is 'expected to (A)', or 'scheduled to (A)'. In other words,
  it is 'becoming that (A)', but has not actually happened yet.This structure is often used after either
  the る or ない versions of verbs, in order to highlight the action which either is not not 'expected',
  or 'scheduled' to occur. Let's take a look at the 'scheduled to' meaning first.When indicating that
  something is 'expected to (A)', this is an example of ている's use for expressing habitual or ongoing actions/states
  that reoccur under some specific set conditions.
examples:
  - japanese: 授業は12時から始まることになっています。
    english: The class is scheduled to start at 12.
  - japanese: 社長は来週の飲み会に参加しないことになっています。
    english: The president is scheduled to not come to the party next week.
  - japanese: タクシーは左から乗ることになっている。
    english: It is expected for customers to get into the cab from the left side.
  - japanese: 生徒たちは授業中に教室を出れないことになっている。
    english: Students are expected to not leave the classroom during class.
  - japanese: 会議は東京にある官庁で行うことになっている。
    english: The meeting is scheduled to take place in a government office in Tokyo.
  - japanese: 寺の中に入る時は、礼儀として靴を脱ぐことになっている。
    english: When you enter a temple, in terms of etiquette, you are expected to take off your shoes.
  - japanese: 電車は規則正しい時間に駅を通過することになっている。
    english: The train is scheduled to pass through the station at regular times.
  - japanese: この寮では、起床時間は6:00ということになっている。
    english: In this dorm, it is expected that you are up by six o'clock.
  - japanese: うちの会社では、仕事中は敬語で話すことになっています。
    english: At my company, it is expected that you speak using keigo while working.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことになっている
false_friends:
  - term: はずだ
    meaning: Bound to (be), Expected to (be), Should be (able)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことになる
    meaning: It will end up being, It is the result of, It has been decided that
    kind: synonym
