grammar_point: ことになる
jlpt: N3
meaning: It will end up being, It is the result of, It has been decided that
meaning_warning: The "something has been decided" meaning only applies to verbs!
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ことになるis an expression that combines the nominalizing use of こと (creating a noun-phrase), with
  thecase marking particleに, and the う - Verb なる 'to become'. This expression can be translated as 'to
  become (A)', but has the nuance that someone/thing caused (A) to become that way. Due to this, it may
  also be translated as 'it has been decided that (A)', or 'it will end up being (A)'.ことになるis primarily
  used with verbs andい-Adjectivesin theirattributive form. It may also be used withな-Adjectivesfollowed
  by な.The 'it has been decided that (A)' meaning only applies to verbs, as only verbs will be enacted
  by someone/thing.Fun FactThis structure is a good example of why なる is often viewed as the intransitive
  form ofする.するconveys that someone is performing an action (transitive), while なる implies that something
  is the result of an action (intransitive). This is why the (A)  phrase inことになるis usually determined
  to have been decided/performed by someone else, while still focusing on exactly 'what' (A) became.
examples:
  - japanese: なんでも後回しにしているとあとから苦労することになる。
    english: If you wait until it is too late, you are going to end up regretting it.
  - japanese: そんなことをしたらとんでもないことになるよ。
    english: If you do something like that, it is going to become a huge deal.
  - japanese: 出来るだけ早く治療をしないと、後から大変なことになる。
    english: If you don't treat it soon, it is going to end up being a bigger issue.
  - japanese: 明日が雨ならば、１週間降り続く事になる。
    english: If it rains tomorrow, it will end up being a week straight of rain.
  - japanese: 震災のため、アメリカに帰らなければならない事になりました。
    english: It was decided that I must return to America because of the earthquake.
  - japanese: インフルエンザにかかってしまったので、今日の大会に出れない事になった。
    english: Since I got the flu I ended up being unable to attend today's tournament.
  - japanese: 大変な事になったぞ。何か作戦を考えなければ。
    english: We ended up getting in trouble. We have to figure out a plan.
  - japanese: この前のように風邪を引いたら、また入院する事になるよ。
    english: If you catch a cold like the last time, you will end up going to the hospital again.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことになる
false_friends:
  - term: にする
    meaning: To decide on, To choose, To make something into, To view something as
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようになる
    meaning: To reach the point that, To come to be that, To turn into
    kind: synonym
  - term: に決まっている
    meaning: Surely, Bound to, Certainly, Be decided
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことにする
    meaning: To decide on, Have decided to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことになっている
    meaning: To be expected to, To be scheduled to
    kind: synonym
