grammar_point: ～にする・～くする
jlpt: N4
meaning: Adjective + する, To make something/someone (more)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When combined with aな-Adjective,にする(orくするin the case ofい-Adjectives) carries the meaning of 'to
  make more (A)'.Just like theにするgrammar point that is used for highlighting decisions, thisにするconstruction
  implies that the speaker has a high level of control over the action.Basically, this changes the adjective
  into an adverb, and then usesするto show that the adjective itself is the thing that is being done.Fun
  Factにするis one of four regularly repeating grammar patterns in Japanese that highlight the level of control
  that the speaker has over the action/result of an action. From highest to lowest level of control, these
  are as follows:にする- High level of control, the speaker/subject can perform this action themselves.になる-
  High level of control, the speaker/subject can perform this action themselves, but there is no external
  target.とする- Medium level of control, the speaker/subject can perform this action, but some outside factors
  may need to be considered (difficulty, other people, time, etc.).となる- Low level of control, the speaker/subject
  has almost no control over these actions, and something that came about purely due to external factors
  is being discussed.
examples:
  - japanese: この建物をもっと丈夫にする方法がありますか？
    english: Is there any way to make this building more durable?
  - japanese: 汚い部屋を綺麗にするのは大変だ。
    english: It is difficult to make a dirty room clean.
  - japanese: 風呂を熱くするよ。いい？
    english: I'm going to make the bath hot. Is that okay?
  - japanese: このコーヒーを甘くするために、砂糖をください。
    english: Please give me sugar to make this coffee more sweet.
  - japanese: 頑張って部品を小さくしてください。
    english: Please try your best to make the parts smaller.
  - japanese: 布団を新しくしたから気持ちいい。
    english: I got a new futon, so it is comfortable. (Literally - I did it new)
  - japanese: 歯医者さんで歯を白くしてもらった。
    english: I had the dentist make my teeth whiter. (Literally - Do white)
  - japanese: お花見には温かくして行った方がいい。
    english: You should make yourself warm when going to a flower-viewing party. (Literally - Do warm)
  - japanese: この部屋を大きくしたいです。
    english: I want to make this room bigger. (Literally - Do big)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にする-くする
false_friends: []
