grammar_point: を中心に
jlpt: N2
meaning: Focused on, Centered on or around, Mainly, Most notably
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When combined with nouns, the expressionを中心にindicates that something is being 'focused on' or
  'centered around'. Occasionally, it may also be translated simply as 'mainly (A)', or 'most notably
  (A)'.中心itself is a noun that expresses the 'pivot', or 'central focus point' from which something else
  is occurring. Thecase marking particleに just marks '(A)を中心に' as the target that is being focused on.Due
  to中心itself marking a 'central point', it may also be used just to express the middle of something, rather
  than something that is being concentrated or focused on.By adding する in either its dictionary or past
  forms,を中心にするorを中心にしたmay appear before another noun. This will highlight the noun that comes after as
  being the overall thing through which the 'focus on (A)' is taking place.Additionally, the case-marking
  particle と may sometimes replace に. This change will put more nuance on the focus point being conclusive,
  rather than progressive or decisive.
examples:
  - japanese: あのアイドルは若者を中心に人気を集めている。
    english: That idol is gaining popularity, mainly among young people.
  - japanese: 私は今日本語の文法を中心に勉強をしています。
    english: Currently, I am focusing my studies on Japanese grammar.
  - japanese: 明日からは札幌を中心に大雪が降るところがあるでしょう。
    english: There will be heavy snow in some areas, mainly in Sapporo, starting tomorrow.
  - japanese: この業界ではお客様を中心にすることが一番重要なことだと言われている。
    english: It is said that the most important thing in this industry is to focus on the customers.
  - japanese: これからはクライアントの提案を中心にした話しを進めたいと思います。
    english: From now on, I would like to proceed with a focus on the client's proposal.
  - japanese: ここはスケートボードを中心にしたポップアップストアです。
    english: This is a pop-up store focusing on skateboards.
  - japanese: 健康診断に行ったら先生に揚げ物を中心とする食生活はやめるようにと言われた。
    english: When I went to my physical check-up, my doctor told me to stop centering my diet around fried
      food.
  - japanese: マコさんはコンピューターを中心として生活をしている。
    english: Mako leads a life centered around computers.
  - japanese: てるはしさんを中心に世界が回っている。
    english: The world revolves mainly around Teruhashi-san.
  - japanese: 天気予報：「明日は、九州を中心に雨の降る所があるでしょう。」
    english: 'Weather forecast: ''Rain will fall mainly in Kyuushuu tomorrow.'''
  - japanese: 息子はあいかわらずお金を中心に物を考えているようだ。
    english: As always, my son always thinks in terms that are focused on money.
  - japanese: アクセントを中心に練習していけば、日本語がさらに上手になりますよ。
    english: You will get even better at Japanese if your practice is centered around (improving) your
      accent.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/を中心に
false_friends: []
