grammar_point: ずとも
jlpt: N1
meaning: Even if not, Without, Don't have to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: When combined with theclassical auxiliary verbず (used for negation), theconjunction particleとも
  'even if' implies that regardless of the hypothetical situation of (A), (B) still applies. This often
  translates as 'even if not (A), (B)', or 'don't have to (A) to (B)'.ずともwill appear attached to the ない-stem
  of verbs.When the speaker wants to express 'not being (A)' rather than 'not doing (A)',ならずともwill follow
  a noun. This is simply the negated form of the う-Verb なる 'to become'.Althoughずともis a formal expression,
  it may occasionally be used sarcastically. Additionally, it is common forずともto be followed by良い. This
  can be interpreted as 'okay even if not (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 昔は練習せずとも新しい曲を完璧に弾けたのに、今となってはどんだけ練習しても上手く弾けないんだよな。
    english: I used to be able to play new music without any practice, but now I can't play well no matter
      how much I practice.
  - japanese: あなたが今ものすごく落ち込んでいるということは聞かずともわかりますよ。
    english: I can tell that you are very upset without even asking.
  - japanese: 日本に留学せずとも、日本語を習得する方法はあるが、日本に行って勉強する方が楽しそうだから私は日本に留学したいです。
    english: I know that there are ways to study Japanese without studying abroad in Japan, but I am going
      to Japan because it seems fun to study there.
  - japanese: 専門家ならずとも、彼は政治について色々と知っている。
    english: Even though he is not an expert, he knows alot about politics.
  - japanese: 親ならずとも子育てが大変だということは見てわかるはずだ。
    english: You don't have to be a parent to see that parenting is hard work.
  - japanese: 来週の試合の相手はあの弱いチームだから、そんなに練習せずとも良いだろう。
    english: Next week's game is against that weak team, so we won't have to practice so much.
  - japanese: 久しぶりに会った友達の話、まさお：「こんな可愛い女の子とどういう関係だ？ まさかガールフレンドか？」あおしま：「まあ、当たらずとも遠からずなんだよ。我が妻だ。」
    english: 'Chat with friends who met after a long time, Masao: ''What is your relationship with such
      a cute girl? Don''t tell me she is your girlfriend?''Aoshima: ''Well... Even if you''re not spot
      on, you are close. She''s my wife.'' (even if you are not on target)'
  - japanese: 妹：「でも、どうやってわかった？」兄：「家族だから言わずともわかる。」
    english: 'Younger sister: ''But, how did you know?''Older brother: ''We are a family, so I understand
      you even if you don''t say anything.'''
  - japanese: ゲーム評論：「RPGゲームファンならずとも、ウィッチャー３に興味をひかれずにはいられません。」
    english: 'Game review: ''Even if I am not an RPG fan, I cannot help but be captivated by Witcher 3.'''
  - japanese: 記事：「アメリカ人とイギリス人は他の言語を学ばずとも生きられる言語環境に居ます。」
    english: 'Article: ''Americans and Brits are in a language environment where they can live without
      learning other languages.'' (even if they do not learn)'
  - japanese: 時代小説、瀕死の親：「わたしの身の心配などせずとも良い。我が娘よ。」
    english: 'A historical novel, dying parent: ''You don''t have to worry about me. My dear daughter.''
      (without・even if)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ずとも
false_friends: []
