grammar_point: に越したことはない
jlpt: N2
meaning: There is nothing better than, It is the best, Would be the best
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Used to convey the meanings of 'there is nothing better than (A)', or '(A) would be the best',に越したことはないis
  a phrase that combines に, the past-tense form of越す, an う-Verb meaning 'to cross over', or 'to surpass',
  こと, は, and ない. Literally, it means 'there is nothing beyond (A)', or 'nothing surpasses (A)'.This structure
  will be seen with verbs, adjectives, and nouns in their standard forms.に越したことはないsentences generally
  present something positive, or some ideal outcome that is wished for.Caution - It is also quite common
  to seeに越したことはないfollowing words that use ない. In these cases, rather than '(A) would be the best', the
  meaning simply changes to 'it would be best if not (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 先輩と待ち合わせているなら、待ち合わせ時間の10分前に着くに越したことはない。
    english: If you are meeting a senpai, it is best to arrive 10 minutes before the meeting time.
  - japanese: 家は広いに越した事はないが、値段と場所も大切だ。
    english: There's nothing better than a spacious house, but the price and location are also important.
  - japanese: 部屋は綺麗であるに越した事はないので、毎日掃除をしています。
    english: I clean my room every day because there's nothing better than a clean room.
  - japanese: 億万長者であるに越した事はない。
    english: There is nothing better than being a billionaire.
  - japanese: 災害は起きないに越した事はない。
    english: There is nothing better than a disaster not happening.
  - japanese: 映画はつまらなくないに越した事はない。
    english: There is nothing better than a movie not being boring.
  - japanese: テストは複雑ではないに越した事はない。
    english: There is nothing better than a test that is not complicated.
  - japanese: こう言う時には一人っ子ではないに越した事はない。
    english: At times like this, there is nothing better than not being an only child.
  - japanese: 長い間の入院の後では、退院できるに越したことはない。
    english: There is nothing better than being able to leave the hospital after a long hospitalization.
  - japanese: 語学の習得を目指すなら、子供の頃から始めるに越したことはないが、年をとってから勉強をし始めて流暢になった人もいる。
    english: If you are aiming at learning a language, there is nothing better than starting as a child,
      however, there are also people who became fluent after getting older.
  - japanese: 合格するために教科書を全部覚えるに越したことはないが、それほど時間がある人はいない。
    english: In order to pass an exam, it would be best to memorize the whole textbook, but no one has
      that kind of time.
  - japanese: 売上が上がるに越したことはないが、強引に売ってはいけません。
    english: There is nothing better than rising sales, but I must not sell forcibly.
  - japanese: 応援してもらうことに越したことはないが、ちょっとやり過ぎです。
    english: There is nothing better than having someone cheer for you, but I think they are overdoing
      it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に越したことはない
false_friends:
  - term: に限る
    meaning: Nothing better than, There's nothing like, Limited to
    kind: synonym
