grammar_point: お〜する
jlpt: N4
meaning: I humbly do, I am obliged to do, Humble speech
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Polite
  使用域: 敬語
writeup: お〜するcomes from a form of polite speech in Japanese calledhumble speech. This type of speech is
  used to refer to the speaker and their actions. This is opposed tohonorific language, which refers exclusively
  to the listener and their actions.お〜するis almost exactly the same asお～になる, as in it simply meansする.お〜するis
  regularly used with words of Japanese origin, whileご～するwill be used with words of Chinese origin. Theするin
  this compound will attach directly to the ます stem of almost any verb.CautionWhile theするin this structure
  will attach directly to the ます stem of verbs, this does not mean that verbs that are alreadyするverbs
  will become しする. In the case ofするverbs, simply change theprefixto ご.In rare cases, お may be used instead
  of ご, when attached to words of Chinese origin. There is no specific rule for this, and they must be
  memorized on a case by case basis.Thankfully, the words of Chinese origin that use お instead of ご are
  extremely common verbs. This means that you will be exposed to almost all of them very quickly. All
  others may be assumed to use ご.Fun FactIn the same way thatお～になるis a more common variation ofなさる(bothhonorific
  language),お〜するis a more common variation ofいたす(bothhumble speech).
examples:
  - japanese: 僕がお守りします！
    english: I am going to protect you!
  - japanese: 今すぐにご確認します。
    english: I will check right now.
  - japanese: ご登録する方はこちらをクリックしてください。
    english: For those who want to register, please click here.
  - japanese: ご注文する時はこちらのベルを押してください。
    english: When you are going to order, please press this bell.
  - japanese: 先輩にお電話するのがすきです。
    english: I like to call my senpai.
  - japanese: 友達とお勉強するのは楽しいです。
    english: It is fun to study with my friends.
  - japanese: 5分後にお電話します。
    english: After 5 minutes, I will call you. (I will call you in five minutes)
  - japanese: 5分後にお電話いたします。
    english: After 5 minutes, I will call you. (I will call you in five minutes)
  - japanese: ドアをお閉めします。
    english: I (will) humbly close the door.
  - japanese: 友達のお母さんにパソコンをお借りしました。
    english: I humbly borrowed a computer from my friend's mother.
  - japanese: お任せします。
    english: I will humbly leave it up to you.
  - japanese: 先生をお呼びしてもよろしいでしょうか？
    english: May I humbly call upon the teacher?
  - japanese: 先生の分もお取りします。
    english: I will humbly take the teacher's share.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/お-する
false_friends:
  - term: いたす
    meaning: To do (Humble)
    kind: synonym
