grammar_point: て初めて
jlpt: N3
meaning: For the first time, Not until, Only after, Only when, Only because
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: て初めて is an expression in Japanese that highlights one verb as being the catalyst for some particular
  result/state. Verb て初めて literally means 'with (A) done, for the first time (B)'. Often, this translates
  similarly to 'only after I (A) did I (B)', or 'not until (A) did I (B)'.In this structure, it should
  be noted that the (A) verb is not necessarily being done for the first time ever, just that this time
  resulted in the speaker's first experience of (B).CautionOriginally,始めて 'commencing with' and初めて 'starting
  with' were both used with this expression. However, this is considered incorrect in modern Japanese,
  as only初めて strictly carries the meaning of 'for the first time'.
examples:
  - japanese: 先生になって初めて、先生の大変さが分かった。
    english: It was only upon becoming a teacher, that I understood how hard it is to be one.
  - japanese: 好きなバンドのコンサートに行って初めて、歌手の人が男の人だと気づいた。
    english: It wasn't until I went to a concert of my favorite band that I realized the singer was a
      man.
  - japanese: 駅にある時間表を見て初めて、土日には電車が来ないことを知った。
    english: I didn't know that trains don't come during the weekends, until I saw the train schedule.
  - japanese: カレンダーを見て始めて今日は休日だってことを知った。
    english: Commencing with checking the calendar, I noticed that today is a holiday.
  - japanese: カレンダーを見て初めて今日が休日だってことを知った。
    english: Only after checking the calendar did I notice that it is a holiday today.
  - japanese: 日本に来て初めて、日本文化に興味を持った。
    english: I didn't have any interest in Japanese culture until I came to Japan.
  - japanese: 京都を訪れて初めて、京都が歴史の古い町だと分かった。
    english: I didn't understand why Kyoto was known as a historical and ancient town until I visited
      there.
  - japanese: 日本語を勉強して初めて、他の国の言語で話す面白さを知った。
    english: I didn't know how fun it was to speak in other languages until I started studying Japanese.
  - japanese: 話を聞いてみて初めて、君の苦労を知った。
    english: Only after I heard your story, did I understand what you had been through.
  - japanese: テレビを見て初めて、地震があったことを知った。
    english: It wasn't until I saw what was on TV, that I became aware of the fact that an earthquake
      had occured.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/て初めて
false_friends:
  - term: てからでないと
    meaning: (Not) unless ~ cannot, (Not) until ~ cannot
    kind: synonym
  - term: てから
    meaning: Once...is done, Once...happens, After doing
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上で
    meaning: After, Upon
    kind: synonym
