grammar_point: どうせ
jlpt: N2
meaning: Anyhow, At any rate, In any case, I have no doubt that, Probably
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: どうせis anadverbused in Japanese to express that some particular state or condition of (A) will
  result in (B). Usually, there is no way to stop (B) from happening, and it is considered a natural consequence
  of (A). In English, this translates closely with phrases like 'at any rate', or 'in any case'.Being
  an adverb,どうせmost often appears at the beginning of sentences, before going on to describe the inevitable
  situation.どうせoften carries the nuance of frustration or resignation that (A) cannot be changed. In these
  cases, it is often paired with other grammar structures such as なら or だから. This shows that if (A) cannot
  be changed, then (B) is a good idea. This usage translates similarly to 'if (A), you might as well (B)'.Fun-fact
  - This grammar structure comes from a combination of どう 'how', and theimperative formof する, せよ. In this
  way, it is just emphasizing that no matter 'how (A) is done', the result cannot be changed.
examples:
  - japanese: どうせまたパチンコに行くんでしょ。
    english: In any case, you are going to the pachinko parlor, aren't you?
  - japanese: どうせ私のことなんて好きじゃないんでしょ。
    english: In any case, you probably don't even like me.
  - japanese: どうせ新しいスマホを買うならもうちょっといい奴買いなよ。
    english: If you're going to buy a new smartphone, you might as well buy something a little better.
  - japanese: どうせまた負けるんだから頑張っても時間と体力の無駄だよ。
    english: We're going to lose again anyway, so trying our best would be a waste of time and energy.
  - japanese: どうせ車を買うのなら、ヒーターシートが付いているのを買おう！
    english: If we are buying a car anyway, let's buy one with heated seats.
  - japanese: この試験の難しさから考えると、どうせ失敗するに決まっている。
    english: Judging from the difficulty of the exam, I have no doubt that my failure has been decided.
  - japanese: 私がどう謝っても、どうせ彼は許すつもりはないだろう。
    english: No matter how much I apologize, I have no doubt that he won't forgive me.
  - japanese: どうせ「ウドの大木だ」と悪口を言われるのがオチだ。
    english: I have no doubt that it will just end with me being called 'big and useless'.
  - japanese: どうせダイアモンドなんて買ってもらえない。
    english: I have no doubt I won't be able to get them to buy me diamonds.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/どうせ
false_friends:
  - term: 何しろ
    meaning: No wonder, After all, In fact, Because, At any rate
    kind: synonym
  - term: 何といっても
    meaning: By any account, All the same, No doubt
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～というのは事実だ
    meaning: It is a fact that ~, There is no doubt that
    kind: synonym
