grammar_point: に向かって・に向けて
jlpt: N2
meaning: Towards, To face, To head to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Coming from a link between に and the う-Verb向かう 'to face', or 'to go towards' in its て-form,に向かってindicates
  that some specific action is being done 'towards (A)' or 'facing (A)'. (A) usually marks a stationary
  object or destination in the form of a noun. However, it can also mark less obvious destinations, such
  as the future '未来'.Additionally, when向ける (the transitive form of the verb) is used, it will imply that
  the speaker is intentionally 'aiming' or 'facing' something towards (A). This is especially true when
  the objective of the speaker is to make something 'suitable' for (A).
examples:
  - japanese: マイクに向かって何か一言お願いします。
    english: Please face the mic and say something.
  - japanese: 空に向かって大声を出した。
    english: I shouted loudly towards the sky.
  - japanese: 明るい未来に向かって一緒に人生を歩もうじゃ無いか！
    english: Why don't we walk toward a bright future together!
  - japanese: 新入社員に向けて何かアドバイスを一言お願いします。
    english: Please share a few words of advice suitable for the new employees.
  - japanese: 彼らは全国大会に向けて毎日朝から夜までトレーニングをしている。
    english: They are training towards the national championship from morning to night everyday.
  - japanese: カメラに向かって、笑顔をお願いします。
    english: Please face the camera and smile.
  - japanese: 将来に向かって、治療の発展は進む一方だ。
    english: Heading toward the future, medical development is continuously progressing.
  - japanese: 日本をはじめ、外国に向けてブランドを広げたい。
    english: Starting with Japan, I want to expand my brand towards foreign countries.
  - japanese: 受験生に向けてアドバイスをお願いします。
    english: Please give some advice aimed at a student preparing for exams.
  - japanese: 小学生に向かってなんでそんなに難しい言い方をするのだろう...
    english: I wonder why he uses such a difficult way of speaking toward elementary school students.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に向かって-に向けて
false_friends:
  - term: へ
    meaning: To, Toward
    kind: synonym
  - term: 向け
    meaning: Intended for, Aimed at
    kind: synonym
  - term: 向き
    meaning: Suitable for, Facing
    kind: synonym
