grammar_point: 並み
jlpt: N1
meaning: As, On par with, Worthy of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 並みis the noun form of the classical verb並む, which has the same meaning as並ぶ, ‘to line up’, or
  ‘to be in line’. It will be used following nouns, and may be interpreted as ‘on par with (A)’, ‘worthy
  of (A)’, or ‘as standard for (A)’. However, the literal translation of ‘in line with (A)’ also works
  just as well in many cases.CautionAlthough並みmay occasionally have the meaning of ‘as standard for (A)’
  as a suffix, the ‘average’ or ‘ordinary’ meaning is often reserved for when並みis used by itself as a
  noun. In these cases it will usually be written as並, and be followed by thecase-marking particleの, and
  then a second noun marking what the average is.Caution並みmay only be used in sentences where (A) has
  a standard or norm that is well recognized, or easily identifiable. In cases where the ‘norm’ would
  change based on an individual’s opinion, rather than what the actual standard is, it will sound unnatural.
examples:
  - japanese: あの子のサーブの仕方はプロ並みだ。
    english: Their serve is on par with pros.
  - japanese: まだ5月なのに8月並みの暑さだ。
    english: Despite it still being May, it is as hot as August.
  - japanese: 彼は日本語をネイティブ並みに話せるから、彼がいると安心できる。
    english: He can speak Japanese as well as a native, so I feel at ease when he is around.
  - japanese: あのような家は並の人には高すぎます。
    english: A house like that is too expensive for the average person.
  - japanese: 並の大学生がお金を貯めるにはアルバイトだけではなく、節約できるところで節約もしないといけません。
    english: In order for the average college student to save money, not only do they have to work part-time,
      but they also have to cut expenses where they can.
  - japanese: この子供の柔軟さはトカゲ並みのレベルがありそうです。
    english: It seems that this kid’s flexibility is on par with that of a lizard. (Unnatural Japanese,
      as the flexibility of a lizard is not something that is either easy to imagine, or common knowledge)
  - japanese: 私の妻の歌はプロ並みだ。
    english: My wife's singing is on par with pros.
  - japanese: アトランタの年間日照時間は、ローマ平均並みである。
    english: Atlanta's annual daylight hours are on par with Rome's average.
  - japanese: チタンは鋼鉄並みの丈夫さだが、はるかに軽量である。
    english: Titanium is as strong as steel, yet much lighter.
  - japanese: この映画はアカデミー賞並みの功績でした。
    english: This movie was an achievement on par with the level of an academy award.
  - japanese: 統計から推測すると、中国の経済は先進国並みになってきている。
    english: Statistics suggest that China's economy has come to be on par with with that of other developed
      countries.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/並み
false_friends: []
