grammar_point: もし
jlpt: N4
meaning: If (For emphasis)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: もしis an adverb used to emphasize the nuance of 'if', with expressions likeと,ば,なら,たら, andても. Literally,
  the meaning ofもしis close to 'while slight', or 'while small'.To useもし, simply add it to the beginning
  of any phrase that uses one of the conditional expressions listed above.Fun Factもしis sometimes seen
  written as若し, a kanji which has the meaning of 'low in (A)', (also seen in the word若い'young'). It is
  from this kanji thatもしgets its meaning of 'while low in (probability, number, age, experience)'.
examples:
  - japanese: もし彼を動物に例えると、猫に似ています。
    english: If we were to compare him to an animal, he resembles a cat. (Even if you only slightly compared
      him)
  - japanese: もし今日来れれば来てね。
    english: If you can come today, please do. (If, on the slight chance you can come)
  - japanese: もしまだ頭が痛いなら、医者に行った方がいいよ。
    english: If your head still hurts, you should go to the doctors. (If, on the slight chance it does
      hurt)
  - japanese: もし買い物に行ったら、お菓子を買って来て。
    english: If you go shopping, can you buy some snacks? (If, on the slight chance you do go)
  - japanese: もし雨が降っても遊園地に行きます。
    english: Even if it rains, we will still go to the amusement park. (If, on the slight chance it does
      rain)
  - japanese: もしこのパソコンを彼女にあげるなら、説明書も渡してね。
    english: If you are going to give this computer to her, (make sure to) give her the manual too.
  - japanese: もし君が文法を勉強したら、日本語を喋れるようになるでしょう。
    english: If you study grammar, you will become able to speak Japanese, right?
  - japanese: もしコーヒーを買ってくれたら、嬉しい。
    english: If you bought coffee for me, I would be happy.
  - japanese: もし雨が降ったら、車で行く。
    english: If it rains, I will go by car.
  - japanese: もし鉛筆を持って来るのを忘れたらテストを受けられなくなる。
    english: If you forget to bring a pencil you will not be able to take the test.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/もし
false_friends:
  - term: なら
    meaning: Were it, If, If it's the case, As for (Conditional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: もしも～なら・もしも～でも
    meaning: If, Supposing
    kind: synonym
  - term: たら
    meaning: When, From when, Just when, If
    kind: synonym
  - term: ば
    meaning: If… then, (Conditional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ても
    meaning: Even if, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: と (quotation)
    meaning: If, When, Whenever, And, [Conditional]
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとえ〜ても
    meaning: Even if…is the case, Supposing that
    kind: synonym
