grammar_point: たって
jlpt: N2
meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter how
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Casual
  使用域: タメ語
writeup: たってis a casual structure that carries the same meaning as 'ても' or 'でも', and can be used with
  a wide variety of words. Common translations include 'even if (A)', 'even though (A)', or 'no matter
  how (A)'.In the case of verbs,たってconjugates in the standard way that the た past-tense form usually would.For
  い-Adjectives,たってattaches to the conjugative く-form.For nouns and な-Adjectives, た will change to だ, and
  だって will then be used with the stem noun or adjective.Fun-fact - Althoughたってis widely considered a casual
  form of ても, it originally stems from たとて, which is a combination of theauxiliary verbた, and the particle
  とて, which itself is thought to be an old-fashioned abbreviation of と言っても. In this way, the modern abbreviation
  ofたってstill reflects the original extended nuance of たと言っても 'even if (A) is said, (B)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女に謝ったってどうせ許してくれないだろう。
    english: Even if I apologized to her, she wouldn't forgive me anyway.
  - japanese: 先生に聞いたって、何も教えてくれないからインターネットで調べる。
    english: Even if I ask the teacher, they won't tell me anything, so I am going to look it up on the
      internet.
  - japanese: どんなに欲しくたって、万引きをしてはいけない。
    english: No matter how much you want something, you must not shoplift.
  - japanese: 稽古がどんなに楽しくなくたって、稽古中には欠伸をしてはならない。
    english: No matter how boring the lesson might be, you must not yawn during a lesson.
  - japanese: こんな簡単な問題馬鹿だってわかるよ！
    english: Even an idiot can figure out a simple problem like this!
  - japanese: 友達だって喧嘩をすることがある。
    english: Even friends can get into fights.
  - japanese: 真剣に告白したって、彼女は冗談だと思うかもしれない。
    english: Even if I confess (my love) in all seriousness, she might think it is a joke.
  - japanese: ブロッコリーが健康に良くたって、もう食べたくない！
    english: Even if broccoli is good for your health, I still don't want to eat it.
  - japanese: どんなに押したくたって、この赤いボタンを押してはダメ。
    english: No matter how much you want to press it, you must not press the red button.
  - japanese: まさか、また宿題忘れたの？あたしの友達だって、いちいち写させることができないわ。もっとしっかりしなさい！
    english: No way, you forgot the homework again?! Even if you are my friend, I can't let you copy it
      every single time! Get a grip!
  - japanese: この試合に勝ったって、準々決勝には進めないよ。
    english: Even if I win the match I won't proceed to the quarterfinals!
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たって
false_friends:
  - term: ては
    meaning: If, With, Since, Because
    kind: synonym
  - term: たところで
    meaning: Even if ~ cannot or will not, Even though ~ not
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても
    meaning: Even though, Even if, Even when, Also
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとえ〜ても
    meaning: Even if…is the case, Supposing that
    kind: synonym
  - term: どうしても
    meaning: Regardless of, No matter what
    kind: synonym
  - term: だって
    meaning: I heard/was said, Because, But, Even or also, Even if or even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようが～まいが
    meaning: Even if, No matter what, Whether or not, [Emphatic], Volitional + が
    kind: synonym
  - term: ても
    meaning: Even if, Even though
    kind: synonym
