grammar_point: ないでもない
jlpt: N1
meaning: Kind of, Might, Slightly, It’s not (impossible) that, Somewhat, In some respects
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ないでもない, andなくもないare structures that have the literal meaning of 'to not not be (A)', and are
  used to express that something is 'a little (A)', or 'kinda (A)'. These structures are used primarily
  when the speaker can neither confirm or deny (A), but may also be used simply when not wanting to directly
  disagree with something that another person has said.Bothないでもないandなくもないmay be used after either the
  negated form of verbs, ornounsfollowed by thecase marking particleが.ないでもないandなくもないare completely interchangeable,
  with the primary difference simply being thatなくもないis less frequently used. Additionally,ないものでもないmay
  also be seen, but just likeなくもない, it is far less common.
examples:
  - japanese: 先輩「あの雲を見ろよ。シマウマみたいに見えるぞ。」後輩「まあシマウマに見えないでもないですね。」
    english: 'Senpai: ''Look at that cloud! It looks like a zebra.''Kouhai: ''Well, it kind of looks like
      a zebra.'''
  - japanese: 友達との話：ちよ「猫が好きじゃないの？かわいくない？」さかき「猫はかわいいと思わないでもないけど、噛むしひっかくしできるだけ避けるよ。」
    english: 'Chat between friends, Chiyo: ''Don''t you like cats? Aren''t they cute?''Sakaki: ''I think
      that they are kind of cute, but they bite and scratch so I try to avoid them as much as possible.'''
  - japanese: 友人に文句を言う：「最近、両親はうちの子犬に夢中だよ。まあその気持ちはわからないでもないけど。とても可愛らしいから。」
    english: 'Complaining to a friend: ''Recently, my parents are all about our puppy! I kind of understand
      them though. It''s pretty adorable.'''
  - japanese: 「なんとなく彼が言った話には欠陥や問題がたくさんあるような気がしないでもないが、いってくれないよりマシだ。」
    english: '''I kind of feel that there are many gaps and problems in his story, but it is better than
      nothing.'''
  - japanese: ペトルーチオ「ケイトは顔だけ見ると、とても美しいと感じられないでもないんだけど・・・性格が悪い。」
    english: 'Petruchio: ''When looking only at the face, Kate can seem kind of pretty, but her character
      is awful.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ないでもない
false_friends:
  - term: といってもいい
    meaning: You could say, You might say
    kind: synonym
