grammar_point: とか
jlpt: N2
meaning: I heard that… something like, They said ... or something
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Being a combination of the particles と and か,とか'quotes' the previous statement as being something
  that has been heard, but is unconfirmed or uncertain. In English, this translates as 'I heard something
  like (A)', or '(A) or something was said'.とかmay appear after verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives, or nouns.This
  meaning of 'or something' when usingとかis fairly casual and will often be heard in everyday conversation.Caution
  - This combination of と and か may appear the same as the とか used to indicate lists, but the former is
  simply a combination of the case-marking particle と, and theadverbial particleか, while the latter is
  a singlelisting particle. Despite this, both structures are originally combinations of と and か, and
  may be thought to have some overlap in meaning.
examples:
  - japanese: 遠藤さんと近藤さんが結婚するとか。意外じゃない？
    english: I heard that Endo-san and Kondo-san are getting married or something. Isn't that surprising?
  - japanese: あの大手家電メーカーが開発した最新のスマホはたくさんのブロートウェアがインストールされているせいで動作がものすごく重いとか。
    english: I heard that the latest smartphone developed by that major appliance manufacturer performs
      extremely slow because of all the bloatware that comes installed, or something like that.
  - japanese: 高橋くんの彼女が美人だとか。あんなやつに美人な彼女ができたとは信じられないけどな。
    english: I heard that Takahashi's girlfriend is beautiful or something. I can't believe that a guy
      like that could have a beautiful girlfriend, though.
  - japanese: あの人は実はお金持ちだとか。
    english: I heard that person is actually rich or something.
  - japanese: めがねちゃん：「彼が昨日、何て言ったか覚えてる？」 ヤンキー君：「明日、１１時ごろに学校の前で会おうとか言っていたようだけど、定かではない。」
    english: 'Megane-chan: ''Do you remember what he said yesterday?'' Yankee-kun: ''He said, ''lets meet
      in front of school around 11'' or something like that, but I am not really sure.'''
  - japanese: 社長は年末年始に温泉旅行に行ってらっしゃるとか。
    english: I heard that the company president is going on a hot springs trip over New Years or something
      like that.
  - japanese: AKB48という音楽グループは解散するとか。
    english: I heard that the music group called AKB48 is going to break up or something like that.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とか
false_friends:
  - term: そうだ
    meaning: I heard that, It is said that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということだ
    meaning: I heard that, Rumor has it that, It is said that, It means that
    kind: synonym
  - term: んだって
    meaning: I heard that, He or She said that
    kind: synonym
