grammar_point: 代わりに
jlpt: N3
meaning: Instead of,  In place of, In exchange for
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 代わり 'a substitute' is anounthat is used to convey when (B) is acting as a replacement or substitute
  for (A). Thecase marking particleにwill come after代わり, before a (B) statement will highlight who the
  replacement is, and possibly what they are doing.As代わり is a noun, it may be used after theattributive
  formof any word.Occasionally,替わり 'to exchange' may be used instead of代わり 'to substitute'. However, within
  the context of this particular grammar structure, there is little to no change in nuance.Fun Fact代わりにis
  often used at the beginning of sentences, simply to express a more preferable option for something.
  In these cases, it comes across as 'rather than that, (A)', or 'instead, (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 俺が社長に電話する代わりに、お前はお客さんに電話をしておいて。
    english: In exchange for me calling the boss, can you call the client in advance?
  - japanese: あのプールは古い代わりに安い。
    english: That pool is cheap, to substitute for it being old.
  - japanese: 仕事は大変な代わりに楽しい。
    english: Work is fun, in exchange for it being difficult.
  - japanese: 私の代わりにやってください。
    english: Can you do it in my place?
  - japanese: 代わりに行ってくれない？
    english: As a replacement, can you go for me?
  - japanese: 代わりにこれを持って行って。
    english: Instead of that, can you go take this?
  - japanese: 私の代わりにこの問題を解いてください。
    english: Please solve this question instead of me.
  - japanese: バナナが嫌いで食べれないからビタミンが取れない。バナナの代わりに何を食べたらいい？
    english: I don't like bananas so I don't eat them and can't get those vitamins. What should I eat
      in place of a banana?
  - japanese: 彼が遅刻をしてしまったので、彼の代わりに発表した。
    english: Since he was late, I presented instead of him.
  - japanese: 先生が風邪をひいて休んだので、代わりに校長先生が授業をした。
    english: Because the teacher caught a cold and took the day off, the principal taught the class in
      his place.
  - japanese: コーヒーの代わりに紅茶では駄目ですか？
    english: Is tea in place of coffee not good enough?
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/代わりに
false_friends:
  - term: むしろ
    meaning: Rather, Instead, Over
    kind: synonym
  - term: に代わって
    meaning: In place of, On behalf of, To succeed
    kind: synonym
