grammar_point: はずだ
jlpt: N4
meaning: Bound to (be), Expected to (be), Should be (able)
meaning_warning: There is also another, even less used kanji for はず：弭。
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: はず, coming from the kanji筈, is a word in Japanese that is very similar to 'bound' in English.
  This means that it expresses something that the speaker is 'quite sure is true', but cannot confirm.
  The most common translations ofはずare 'bound to be (A)', and 'should be (A)'.Asはずis a noun, it may be
  used in any place that a noun would usually be used. It will often be followed byだ, orです.CautionDespiteはずsometimes
  being translated as 'should', this is only when you think that something 'should be true', and cannot
  be used when making suggestions/giving advice. Due to this, 'bound' is the more accurate translation
  of筈, in almost all situations.Fun FactTheだ(orです) inはずだmay be omitted. This usually makesはずsound a little
  less certain, like 'bound to be (A)... probably'. In the same way, speakers may sometimes addはずto the
  end of their sentences in a similar way to多分, in order to show that they are not 100% certain about
  whether what they just said is accurate or not.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は雨が降るはずだ。
    english: It is supposed to rain today. (But I am not 100% sure if it will)
  - japanese: 新幹線で行った方が速いはずだ。
    english: It is bound to be faster if we go by shinkansen. (But I am not 100% sure if it will)
  - japanese: 彼は魚が嫌いだから寿司は嫌いなはずだ。
    english: He does not like fish, so he is sure to dislike sushi. (But I am not 100% sure if he will)
  - japanese: 頼んだのはコーヒーのはずだったけどお茶が来た。
    english: I was sure that I ordered coffee, but tea came. (But I am not 100% sure if I did)
  - japanese: ハリーも今日のパーティーに行く…はず。
    english: Harry will go to the party today… Probably.
  - japanese: 出かける前に家の中の電気は全部消した… はず。
    english: I turned off all the lights in my house before I left… I'm pretty sure.
  - japanese: 彼は借りたペンを返す筈だ。
    english: He is bound to return the pen he borrowed. (expected to)
  - japanese: 妻は夜七時までに、帰ってくる筈だ。
    english: My wife is expected to return home by seven o'clock. (bound to)
  - japanese: 夏だから、暑い筈だ。
    english: Because it is summer, it is expected to be hot. (bound to be)
  - japanese: ここから富士山が見える筈だ。
    english: One should be able to see Mt. Fuji from here. (bound to)
  - japanese: この港には船がある筈だ。
    english: There are bound to be boats in this harbor. (expected to be)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/はずだ
false_friends:
  - term: はずがない
    meaning: Hardly possible, Cannot be, Highly unlikely, Improbable
    kind: antonym
  - term: べきではない
    meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
    kind: antonym
  - term: わけだ
    meaning: For that reason, No wonder, As you'd expect, Naturally, Thus, This is why
    kind: synonym
  - term: つもりだ
    meaning: To plan to, To intend to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことになっている
    meaning: To be expected to, To be scheduled to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばいい
    meaning: Can, Should, It'd be good if
    kind: synonym
  - term: べき
    meaning: Must, Should , Ought to
    kind: synonym
  - term: たらいい・といい
    meaning: It would be nice if, It would be good if, Should, I hope
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものだ
    meaning: Supposed to, Should, That's the way it is
    kind: synonym
