grammar_point: たなり・なり
jlpt: N1
meaning: While... ~ing, Remaining, Not or ever since, Keep or leave
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: When following the た, past-tense form of a verb, theconjunction particleなり 'shape' indicates
  something existing in an ongoing state, similar to まま. This may be translated as 'while (A)', or 'remaining
  (A)'.Due to～たなりsentences usually describing something happening while in the state of (A), it will often
  be followed directly by a comma, or by theconjunctive formof theauxiliary verbだ, で. After this, the
  (B) phrase will then describe what is happening during (A).～たなりwill primarily be used to express an
  undesirable state continuing despite (A) having happened, although this is not a strict rule.As～たなりindicates
  that (A) is something that is continuing to stay in the same state, it will often have the nuance of
  'ever since (A)' in situations where a significant amount of time has passed.CautionThis なり derives
  from the noun形'shape' in its hiragana form, and is different to the なり that is used as the classic copula.
examples:
  - japanese: 弟は彼女に振られて部屋に入ったなり、全然部屋から出てこなくなってしまった。
    english: Ever since my brother locked himself in his room after his girlfriend broke up with him,
      he hasn't come out of his room at all.
  - japanese: 父が釣りにいったなりまだ帰ってこない、大丈夫かな...
    english: My father hasn't come back home since he went out fishing. I wonder if he is okay…
  - japanese: 兄は上京したなり、帰ってこない。
    english: My older brother hasn't come back, ever since he moved to Tokyo.
  - japanese: 彼は腰かけたなりじっと考えていた。
    english: While remaining seated, he has been pondering intently.
  - japanese: ３年前に涙ながらに家出したなり、帰ってこない。
    english: She ran away three years ago in tears, and hasn't come back (ever) since.
  - japanese: レース後、草の上に横になったなり、泣き続けた。
    english: After the race, he cried while lying down on the grass.
  - japanese: 町を離れたなり消息は途絶えた。
    english: We haven't heard from her ever since she left the city.
  - japanese: 宿泊客の一人がドアを開けたなりにしてあります。
    english: One of the hotel guests left the doors open.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たなり-なり
false_friends:
  - term: ままに (as desired)
    meaning: As is, While remaining, Left in a state
    kind: synonym
  - term: きり
    meaning: Only, Just, Since
    kind: synonym
