grammar_point: によると・によれば
jlpt: N3
meaning: According to
meaning_warning: Remember that ことによると is a set expression meaning "perhaps"!
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: によると, a combination of thecase marking particleに, the う - Verb よる, and theconjunction particleと,
  is a phrase that is used to express that something is 'according to (A)', or 'going off (A)'. In these
  cases, (A) is considered to be the source of some form of information which will be conveyed in the
  (B) part of the sentence.This expression will be used after nouns, or with verbs that have been paired
  with ところ (to indicate the 'place' where the information came from).In newspapers and in articles, the
  more formalによりますとvariant can also regularly be seen.However, this structure is not limited to using
  と, and the same meaning can be conveyed with withによれば. This is just よる in its conjunctive form that
  pairs with theconjunction particleば.CautionAlthoughによるとand によれば are largely interchangeable,によるとwill
  convey a higher level of 'certainty', or 'reliability' in regard to the source of information. Due to
  this,によるとis more likely to be used when referring to legitimate sources (police, news, etc).Fun Factよる
  is almost always written in hiragana alone. However, there are several different kanji that can be used
  to represent this verb. Each of these kanji have slightly different nuances, but they generally all
  represent the same 'base' meaning. This meaning is that '(B)'s foundation is (A)'. The most common kanji
  used for よる are as follows:依る - (B) depends on (A)拠る - (B) extends from (A)因る - (B) results from (A)由る
  - (B) is due to (A)
examples:
  - japanese: 今朝の天気予報によると、今夜から雪が降るらしいですよ。
    english: According to the forecast, it is apparently going to start snowing from tonight.
  - japanese: 先生に聞いたところによると、来週からオンライン授業になるらしいよ。
    english: Going off of what I heard from the teacher, we are going to be taking online classes from
      next week.
  - japanese: 愛知県警によりますと、犯人は40代の男性だと言う事です。
    english: According to the Aichi Prefectural Police, the criminal is a 40 year old male.
  - japanese: 今朝のニュースによれば、来月末から海外旅行が出来るようになる。
    english: According to this morning's news, we are going to be able to travel abroad starting from
      the end of next month.
  - japanese: 私が聞くところによると、部長が転職するそうだ。
    english: Going off of what I heard, the manager is going to be switching jobs.
  - japanese: 警視庁によると、イマダ容疑者は寝ている母親を包丁で刺していたという事です。
    english: According to the Tokyo Metropolitan Police department, Imada, the suspect, stabbed his mother
      who was sleeping, with a knife.
  - japanese: 天気予報によると、明日は晴れです。
    english: According to the weather forecast, tomorrow will be sunny.
  - japanese: 警察によると、犯人が逃げたそうです。
    english: According to the police, the criminal escaped.
  - japanese: 私の母によると、毎日野菜を食べる必要があるらしいです。
    english: According to my mother, it is necessary to eat vegetables every day.
  - japanese: 先輩の話によると、あの会社はブラック企業らしい。
    english: According to what my senior said, that company is one of those 'black companies'.
  - japanese: 目撃者によれば、犯人は20代男性だ。
    english: According to the witness, the criminal is a man in his 20s.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/によると-によれば
false_friends:
  - term: にしたがって
    meaning: As, Following, As then, According to, In accordance with
    kind: synonym
  - term: によって・による
    meaning: By means of, According to, Depending on, Because of, Due to
    kind: synonym
  - term: をもとに
    meaning: Based on, From, According to
    kind: synonym
  - term: にもとづいて
    meaning: Based on, In accordance with
    kind: synonym
