grammar_point: だらけ
jlpt: N3
meaning: Completely covered in, Full of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: だらけis asuffixthat is used in Japanese to express when one thing is 'covered in', or 'filled with'
  another thing.だらけwill be attached to the end of nouns, before (sometimes) being followed by thecase
  marking particleの and a second noun. The second noun is frequently omitted if the place or thing that
  is 'covered in' something is obvious.Fun Factだらけis primarily used to express things that exist in a
  'scattered' state (like stars in the sky). Due to this, it will not sound natural when used to describe
  a thing that is 'covered in' something that is not scattered in some way.
examples:
  - japanese: パンケーキの裏側が穴だらけで気持ち悪い。
    english: The underside of this pancake is covered in holes so it is gross.
  - japanese: この公園はゴミだらけだからこどもを連れて来たくない。
    english: This park is covered in garbage, so I don't want to bring my kids here.
  - japanese: 傷だらけの車に乗っているのを見られたくないからいつも妻の車に乗ってる。
    english: I don't want someone to see me drive a car covered in scratches, so I always drive my wife's
      car.
  - japanese: 泥だらけの服を洗濯機にいれないで！
    english: Don't put mud-covered shirts in the washing machine!
  - japanese: 壁をしろだらけに塗ってください。
    english: Please cover my wall with white paint. (Unnatural, unless the speaker specifically wanted
      paint speckled, rather than covering the wall)
  - japanese: 血だらけのシャツをクリーニングに出した。
    english: I took my blood-covered shirt to the dry cleaner. (Natural, as blood drops may be scattered)
  - japanese: 床が泥だらけになった。
    english: The floor became covered in dirt.
  - japanese: 君の文章は間違いだらけ。書き直した方がいいよ。
    english: Your passage is full of mistakes. It would be better to rewrite it.
  - japanese: 汗だらけでもかまわない。
    english: I don't mind being covered in sweat.
  - japanese: あの土地、知らないうちに雑草だらけになってしまった。
    english: Before I knew it, that land had been completely overgrown with weeds.
  - japanese: せっかく海に来たのに、ビーチがゴミだらけだ。
    english: I took the trouble to come to the ocean, and yet I found the beach completely covered in
      trash.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だらけ
false_friends:
  - term: にほかならない
    meaning: Nothing but, None other than, Simply
    kind: synonym
  - term: しか～ない
    meaning: There's only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: 塗れ
    meaning: Stained, Covered in, Smeared, Dirty with, Soaked in
    kind: synonym
