grammar_point: Verb［せる・させる］
jlpt: N4
meaning: To make/let/have (somebody do something)
meaning_warning: either に or を can mark the doer
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In order to express that someone was 'made to do', or 'let do' something, theauxiliary verbsせるandさせるwill
  be used. The meaning thatせるandさせるwill convey (when attached to a verb) is called使役(causative, employment,
  or using) in Japanese.A common misconception is thatせるandさせるare standard conjugations of each verb.
  However, theseauxiliary verbsshould be thought of as having their own meaning, in a similar way to howたい,
  ない,だ,です, and other auxiliaries each have their own meanings.In order to use these grammar structures,
  remove the る fromる-Verbs, and then addさせる. Forう-Verbs, change the last kana to the あ sound kana from
  within the same column (except for う, which becomes わ), and then add せる (る becomes ら, む becomes ま, く
  becomes か, etc.).As usual,するand来るhave special conjugation rules.するwill be replaced completely byさせる(in
  a similar way to howできるcompletely replacesするin the 'potential' form).来るwill become来させる.CautionWith causative,
  eitherに, orをcan mark the doer of the action that せる, or させる is linked to (not が). This is because the
  actual 'doer' of the action is considered to be the person that is making/letting someone perform that
  action.にwill usually imply that someone was 'let' do something, whileをimplies 'make'.Fun FactBecause
  the actual 'doer' in causative verb sentences will be marked withが(as is always the case), the literal
  translation ofせるandさせるis closer to the following:(A) が (B)に楽しませる- For (A) to cause fun 'in' (B).(A)
  が (B)を楽しませる- For (A) to cause fun 'through' (B).It is these standard meanings of the particlesに(a location)
  andを(a target) that will create the 'let', or 'make' nuance when usingせる, orさせる.
examples:
  - japanese: 息子に野菜を食べさせる。
    english: I make my son eat vegetables.
  - japanese: 友達にトマトを育てさせる。
    english: I make my friend grow tomatoes.
  - japanese: 忘年会で先輩たちが後輩に歌を歌わせた。
    english: At the end of year party, the seniors made the juniors sing a song.
  - japanese: 友達が私の携帯を壊したので、新しいのを買わせます。
    english: Since my friend broke my phone, I will make them buy me a new one.
  - japanese: 嫌な仕事は後輩にさせる。
    english: I let my juniors do the work that I don't want to do.
  - japanese: 親を心配させることは、してはいけない。
    english: You should not do anything that would make your parents worry.
  - japanese: 夜遅くに会社に来させるのはよくない。
    english: It is not good to make people come to the company late at night.
  - japanese: 犬を呼んで、こっちに来させる。
    english: To call the dog and make it come to you.
  - japanese: 誰かに心配をさせる。
    english: To let someone worry about you.
  - japanese: 誰かを心配させる。
    english: To make someone worry about you.
  - japanese: 学校に行きたくない子を行かせる。
    english: (Someone) makes the kid who doesn't want to go to school go.
  - japanese: 友達を朝４時に起こして、帰らせた。
    english: I woke my friend up at four in the morning and made him go home.
  - japanese: 私は生徒に勉強することを楽しませます。
    english: I make/let students enjoy studying.
  - japanese: 友達を無理やりお化け屋敷に行かせたから、怒られた。
    english: I was gotten mad at because I insistently made my friend go to a haunted house.
  - japanese: お兄ちゃんが妹を泣かせた。
    english: My older brother made my younger sister cry.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/causative
false_friends:
  - term: Verb［れる・られる］
    meaning: Was done to ~ by ~, Done without consent, Done to one's dismay
    kind: synonym
  - term: Causative-Passive
    meaning: Verbs (Causative-passive voice), To be made to do something, To be forced to do
    kind: synonym
