grammar_point: くらい ②
jlpt: N3
meaning: To the extent that, So…that, About the only thing that...
meaning_warning: くらい and ぐらい may be used 100% interchangeably, but ぐらい is far more common in speech
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Often, thenounくらいis used as anadverbial particle. This use ofくらい(or ぐらい) expresses the limit
  of something, in a similar way to ほど. This means that it can be translated as 'about (A)', 'so (A) that
  (B)', or '(A) to the extent of (B)'. Let's take a look at a few examples.Despite translating in the
  above ways, we can see that this use ofくらいis similar to the standard kanji use位, which literally means
  a 'rank', or 'grade' of something. What this means is that (A) will usually be considered to be at the
  'grade' of something that was required in order to cause/allow (B).
examples:
  - japanese: 今日はもう一生走りたくないくらい走った。
    english: Today, I ran so much that I don't want to run again in my whole life.
  - japanese: わたしも叫びたいくらい、怖かった。
    english: I was so scared that I wanted to scream too.
  - japanese: 5連休が必要なぐらい疲れています。
    english: I am tired to the extent that it is necessary for me to have 5 days off.
  - japanese: 俺もキヨミさんくらいピアノが弾けるようになりたい。
    english: I want to be able to play the piano to about the level of Kiyomi-san.
  - japanese: 寝るしかしたくないくらい、疲れている。
    english: I am so tired that I don't want to do anything but sleep.
  - japanese: プロ選手ぐらい上手になりたい。
    english: I want to be skilled to the extent that pro athletes are.
  - japanese: 少し日本語を話せるぐらい勉強したことがある。
    english: I have studied to the extent that I can speak a little Japanese.
  - japanese: 兄は久し振りにアメリカから帰った。兄だとわからないくらい変わってしまった。
    english: My brother returned home for the first time in a long time from America. He changed, to the
      extent that I didn't recognize that it was him.
  - japanese: みんなを泣かすくらいスパイシーなチリのサラダを作った。
    english: I made a chili salad so spicy that it made everyone cry.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/くらい2
false_friends:
  - term: くらい ①
    meaning: About, Approximately
    kind: synonym
  - term: まで
    meaning: Even, To even, To the extent of
    kind: synonym
  - term: ほど
    meaning: The more, About, To the extent that, So much… that
    kind: synonym
