grammar_point: なくてはならない
jlpt: N5
meaning: Must do, Have to do
meaning_warning: Also used to express duty or necessity.Click here if you are curious about なくて conjugation
details:
  Part of Speech: Auxiliary Verb
  Register: Formal
  品詞: 表現
  単語の種類: 助動詞
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Much like てはならない , なくてはならない states that something 'must not' be done. However, this is where
  the similarities end. なくてはならない is an example of a double negative in Japanese, and actually has the
  meaning '(A) must be done', or 'must do (A)'.While this grammar point is usually translated as 'must
  do', the literal translation is 'must not, not do (A)'. This double 'not' is where many learners have
  difficulties. ならない simply means 'cannot become', and comes from the negative form of なる .To use this
  structure, simply create the negative form of a verb, and then convert ない to なく (the conjunctive form
  of an い-Adjective ), followed by て . After this, は is added, and then finally ならない .ならない is considered
  to be the most formal structure out of ならない , いけない , and だめ. It is regularly used in formal writing,
  or semi-formal/formal speech. いけない (the most common variation) and だめ (the most casual variation) are
  also acceptable in many situations.CautionThe ては in なくては is often shortened to ちゃ, as this is easier
  to say. なくちゃ may then be followed by ならない . However, due to ならない being quite formal, なくちゃ (a casual
  structure) will not be used with ならない on a regular basis. It is more common to see なくちゃ paired with
  いけない , or だめ.These casual structures are very similar to words like 'gotta' in English.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は沢山走ったからシャワーを浴びなくちゃならない。
    english: Because I ran a lot today, I must take a shower.
  - japanese: バーベキューに肉を持って行かなくちゃいけない。
    english: I gotta bring meat to the barbeque.
  - japanese: 冬になる前にキャンプに行かなくちゃだめだね。
    english: We gotta go camping before it becomes winter, right?
  - japanese: 毎日勉強をしなくてはならない。
    english: You must do your studies every day.
  - japanese: ３時半までに、銀行に行かなくてはならない。
    english: By 3:30, I have to go to the bank.
  - japanese: もう二時ですか！まだお弁当食べてないです。食べなくてはならない。
    english: It's already two?! I haven't eaten my bento yet. I have to eat.
  - japanese: 京都で電車を降りなくてはならない。
    english: I must get off the train in Kyoto.
  - japanese: 君が決めなくてはならないよ。
    english: You have to decide.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なくてはならない
false_friends:
  - term: てはいけない
    meaning: Must not, May not
    kind: antonym
  - term: なくてはいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくちゃ・なきゃ
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないと
    meaning: Must, Have to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ねばならない
    meaning: Must, Have to, Should
    kind: synonym
