grammar_point: ならまだしも
jlpt: N1
meaning: A is fine...but B is not, If it's ~ then it is ok...but ~ is not, It's different when...but,
  It's not so bad when...but
meaning_warning: しも is from classical Japanese and emphasizes まだ
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ならまだしもis a combination of なら 'if', まだ 'still', and theadverbial particleしも, which has the primary
  purpose of strengthening the word that comes before it. When used, this structure will often be translated
  as '(A) is fine, but not (B)', or '(A) is fine, but it's different when it's (B)'.ならまだしもis a phrase
  that usually separates the first and second half of sentences, so will be attached to the end of the
  (A) phrase, marking the statement that is acceptable.Due to the way that しも alters まだ, a more literal
  translation of this grammar point can be thought of as 'if it's (A), then of course there's still that,
  but as for (B)'.Fun Factしも is a classical particle that is not frequently used in modern times outside
  of set phrases or expressions likeならまだしも,今しも 'right this moment', and だれしも 'absolutely anybody'. In
  all cases, it merely strengthens the word directly before it.
examples:
  - japanese: 暑いだけならまだしも、湿度も高いからどこにも行きたくない。
    english: If it was hot, that would be fine, but because it is also humid, I don't want to go.
  - japanese: 二、三日ならまだしも、二週間なんて待てませんよ。
    english: If it was 2 or three days, we could wait, but 2 weeks? We can't wait that long.
  - japanese: 一回だけならまだしも、毎日同じことで怒られて何にも思わないの。
    english: If it was only once, okay, but don't you feel any sort of way being told the same thing everyday?
  - japanese: 今しも家を出ようとしていたところだった。
    english: I was just about to leave the house.
  - japanese: 誰しも長年使ってきた釣り竿には愛着がある。
    english: Everyone has an attachment to a fishing rod they have used for many years.
  - japanese: すみませんが、付き合うぐらいならまだしも、結婚は無理な注文です。
    english: I am sorry, if it is just going out then it is ok, but marriage is out of the question. (is
      not okay)
  - japanese: すごく恥ずかしい！お父さん、ビーチでならまだしも、半裸で外に出るのはやめてほしい！
    english: This is so embarrassing! Papa, if it is a beach, it is ok, but going half naked outside?
      I want you to stop! (it is not okay)
  - japanese: 隣人がうちの駐車区域にたまに車を止めるならまだしも、いつも止めているから、いい加減腹が立つよ。
    english: If my neighbor uses my parking spot from time to time then it's ok, but because he is always
      parking there, I get pissed. (it is not okay)
  - japanese: 友達に出荷遅延について苦情を言う：「１週間とか２週間ならまだしも、出荷まで３ヶ月も待つなんて全く受け容れられない！」
    english: 'Complaining to a friend about a shipment delay: ''If it was one or two weeks, that would
      be fine, but waiting something like 3 months until the shipment? That is completely unacceptable!''
      (not okay)'
  - japanese: ツイート：「自分が感染するだけならまだしも祖父母や親などが病気になってしまうのがとても恐ろしいです。」
    english: 'Tweet: ''If it is just me becoming infected, then it is ok, but my grandparents or parents
      becoming ill is really scary.'' (is not okay)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ならまだしも
false_friends: []
