grammar_point: からある
jlpt: N1
meaning: As much as, As many as, At least
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Like からする, a structure showing that something 'goes from (A)',からあるworks in a similar way, but
  simply shows that something 'exists from (A)'. This grammar pattern will be used when making an estimation
  where the minimum is being guessed.からあるis a combination of the case-marking particle から 'from', and
  the う-Verb ある 'to be'.からあるwill appear after numbers and counters.からあるhas a tendency to appear most frequently
  when describing things that are thought to be static, such as distances, sizes, or weights.CautionFollowing
  the standard rules of いる and ある, いる will need to be used if something living is being counted.However,
  this is not a common use of this grammar structure, with からの almost always being used in place of からいる
  for counting living things.
examples:
  - japanese: おじいちゃんは80歳なのに60キロからあるダンベルを持ち上げることができる。
    english: Even though my grandpa is 80 years old, he is able to lift dumbbells that weigh as much as
      60 kilos.
  - japanese: 中学生の頃から好きなバンドのコンサートチケットを買おうとしたら、5000枚からあるチケットがすぐに売り切れていて、買うことができなかった。
    english: When I tried to buy concert tickets for a band that I have liked since middle school, I couldn't
      because as many as 5000 tickets were sold out instantly.
  - japanese: 彼は小柄であるにも関わらず、７０キロからある冷蔵庫を一人で持ち上げることができる。
    english: Although he is smaller in stature, he can lift refrigerators that weigh as much as 70 kilos,
      all by himself.
  - japanese: この会社には正社員が3000人からいる。
    english: There are as many as 3000 full time workers in this company.
  - japanese: あのコンサートには1万人からの人数がいる。
    english: There are as many as 10,000 people at that concert.
  - japanese: 百匹からいるネズミをどうやって退治するのか！
    english: How do you get rid of as many as 100 mice!
  - japanese: 「富士山はここから２００キロからあるのに、よく見えます。」
    english: '''Mt. Fuji is as many as 200 kilometers from here, and yet it is quite visible.'''
  - japanese: オーストラリアの大火事で10億匹からいる動物が焼死した。
    english: As many as one billion animals perished in the Australian fires.
  - japanese: 狼は、人間には聞こえない音が聞こえる。また、体重が80キロからある個体もある。
    english: Wolves can hear sounds that are inaudible to humans. Also, some specimens weigh as much as
      80 kilograms.
  - japanese: 名探偵ゴナン：「犯人は少なくとも３人からいます。」
    english: 'The great detective Gonan: ''There are, at the very least, as many as three culprits.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/からある
false_friends:
  - term: 以上 ①
    meaning: More than (or equal to), Over・(and) above, Any more・Greater, Exceeding
    kind: synonym
