grammar_point: いかん〜ず
jlpt: N1
meaning: Regardless of (whatever … is), Irrespective of (whatever … is)
meaning_warning: いかん is a formal written expression meaning “how"/ “in what way”
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: When thenounいかん 'how', or 'what' is paired with a verb negated with theclassical auxiliary verbず,
  it will commonly be translated as 'regardless of (A), (B)', or 'irrespective of (A), (B)'. The verbs
  used for this construction are restricted to関わらず 'without relation', によらず 'without approaching', and
  を問わず 'without questioning.いかん〜ずcome after anounfollowed by thecase marking particleの.いかん〜ずis a formal
  grammar pattern that is used primarily to express that (B) will not be affected by (A), even if it is
  something that would usually be expected. Because of this, 'without taking (A) into account' is another
  fairly accurate translation of the nuance.
examples:
  - japanese: 天候のいかんに関わらず、明日のコンサートは予定通りに開催されます。
    english: Regardless of the weather, the concert tomorrow will be held as scheduled.
  - japanese: 予約日の24時間前であれば、理由のいかんによらず、キャンセル料を取られずにキャンセルをすることができます。
    english: Cancellations may be made 24 hours prior to the appointment date, regardless of the reason
      without incurring a cancellation fee.
  - japanese: 未経験者や経験者のいかんを問わず、ここで働く前には新規研修を受けてもらいます。
    english: Regardless of whether you are experienced or not, we require everyone to undergo training
      before working here.
  - japanese: ライセンス契約：「当社は事情のいかんに関わらず、本品の不適切な使用によって生じたいかなる損害については責任を負いません。」
    english: 'License agreement: ''The company will not be held responsible for any damage caused due
      to the improper usage of the product regardless of (what) the circumstances (are).'''
  - japanese: 販売店の返品ポリシー：「商品到着後２週間以内であれば、理由のいかんによらず、自由に返品することが可能です。」
    english: 'Return policy of a store: ''It is possible to return any product, free of charge, regardless
      of (what) the reason (is) if the return falls within two weeks of the delivery of the product.'''
  - japanese: 学校の方針：「本校はプログラム及び活動などでは、宗教・国籍等のいかんを問わず、いかなる差別も許しません。」
    english: 'School policy: ''The school will not discriminate regardless of religion or ethnic origin,
      and so on, in its programs or activities.'''
  - japanese: 試験は一部の試験科目でも合格点に達しなければ、他の試験科目の成績のいかんに関わらず、不合格となります。
    english: If the student does not achieve a passing mark in any part of the exam, then regardless of
      (what) the results of the other parts (are) the test will be considered failed.
  - japanese: 登録確認のメール：「このメッセージに返信しないようお願いいたします。返信いただいてもこちらのメールアドレスは送信専用なので内容のいかんに関わらずお答えできません。ご了承ください。」
    english: 'A registration confirmation email: ''We kindly ask you to not reply to this message. Even
      if you do so, this mail address is dedicated only to sending, therefore we will not be able to answer,
      regardless of (what) the contents of the message (are). Thank you for your understanding.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/いかん-ず
false_friends: []
