grammar_point: ねばならない
jlpt: N2
meaning: Must, Have to, Should
meaning_warning: Rarely used in modern Japanese; mostly used in literature
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: Unlike the standard ば form of hypothetical phrases, ねば makes use of theclassical auxiliary verbず
  in its ね form. However, the meaning is the same as the modern なければ  'if not (A)'. ねば connects to verbs
  in the same way as ない, and will then be followed by the negative form of なる 'to become', ならない.Likeなければならない,ねばならないwill
  translate to 'must do (A)', or 'have to do (A)', and is simply a double negative that literally means
  'if not (A), it won't be (B)'. This is a formal structure, and will mostly be found in literature.As
  ね is a form of theliterary auxiliary verbず, the base of する will change to せねば, in the same way it changes
  to せず in other grammar patterns.Caution - Sometimes ならない will be replaced with ならぬ. This has exactly
  the same meaning and just makes use of the ぬ attributive form of the sameauxiliary verb,  ず.While not
  changing the meaning at all, the addition of ぬ will make the overall expression sound even more old-fashioned.Fun-fact
  - As with other 'must' double-negative structures, the second part of the ねばならない may sometimes be omitted,
  resulting in ねば or せねば appearing by itself. This is similar to the modern ないと appearing without いけない
  following it.
examples:
  - japanese: 今月の13日までに電気代を払わねばならない。
    english: I have to pay the electric bill by the 13th of this month.
  - japanese: あの人は一応私の先輩なので何を言われても、従わねばならない。
    english: That person is my senpai, more or less, so no matter what he says, I must obey him.
  - japanese: お客さんが来る前に掃除をせねばならない。
    english: I must clean before the guests arrive.
  - japanese: 日本語を今より話せる様になりたいのならば、もっと努力をせねばならない。
    english: If you want to be able to speak Japanese better than you do now, you have to work harder.
  - japanese: 社長には僕に任せてくださいと言ったので、何があっても成功せねばならぬ。
    english: I told my boss to leave it to me, so no matter what happens, I must succeed.
  - japanese: もうこんな時間ですか、そろそろ帰らねば。
    english: It's already so late! I must go home soon.
  - japanese: あなたたちは兄弟でしょう？もっと仲良くせねば。
    english: You guys are siblings, aren't you? You guys have to be nice to each other.
  - japanese: 通りがかりに意識を失った人がいたら、すぐに緊急用の番号に連絡せねばならない。
    english: If you happen to come across a person that has lost consciousness, you have to immediately
      call an emergency phone number.
  - japanese: 指示によると日本語能力試験にはHBの鉛筆を使わねばならない。
    english: According to the instructions, you should use an HB pencil on the JLPT exam.
  - japanese: 自然環境は悪化の危機にさらされているため、保護するために国際社会が一致して協力せねばならない。
    english: Because the environmental crisis is growing worse, the international community must join
      forces to protect it.
  - japanese: 体重が激減したため、生活パターンを見直さねばならない。
    english: Due to my weight dropping drastically, I must rethink how I live my life.
  - japanese: 血圧が高すぎるので、病院に行かねばならない。
    english: Since my blood pressure is too high, I should go to the hospital.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ねばならない
false_friends:
  - term: なくてはいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくてはならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
