grammar_point: なくて (conjunction)
jlpt: N4
meaning: To not ~ and ~, Not ~ and ~ (Conjugations)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In Japanese,なくてis a construction that combines ない (in its conjugation form, なく), with theconjunction
  particleて. This results in the same 'and' meaning as the standardてform, but with the negative meaning
  of ない.なくてcan be translated as 'to not (A), and…', or 'not (A), and…', depending on what type of word
  it is used with.As discussed in our initial lesson about ない, there are two forms of this particular
  word. One form is an auxiliary verb, and is used with verbs. The other form of ない is anい-Adjective(形容詞),
  and is used with nouns,な-Adjectives, andい-Adjectives.The difference between these two, is that theい-Adjectiveform
  may haveはin between it and the word it is connected to (ではin the case of nouns andな-Adjectives). With
  verbs, due to ない being anauxiliary verb, this is not possible.Cautionなくてis very similar toないで, another
  structure that is regularly used with verbs (but may not be used with nouns or adjectives).ないでis far
  more common when expressing 'not doing' something, whileなくてtends to be used almost exclusively for expressing
  reasons/causes.
examples:
  - japanese: お金がなくて車が買えない。
    english: I don't have money, and I can't buy a car.
  - japanese: あのケーキは甘くはなくてまずいです。
    english: That cake is not sweet, and tastes bad. (は is frequently added between the stem form of adjectives
      and ない. Often, this is just for emphasis)
  - japanese: 私の車は静かではなくてガソリンの減りも早い。
    english: My car is not quiet, and runs out of gas quickly.
  - japanese: あれは犬ではなくて猫でもないです。
    english: That is not a dog, and not a cat either.
  - japanese: この風呂は汚れはなくて、いつもいい匂いがする。
    english: This bath is not dirty, so it always smells good. (Unnatural Japanese, as は will never come
      between a verb and ない)
  - japanese: この風呂は汚れなくて、いつもいい匂いがする。
    english: This bath doesn't get dirty, and it always smells good. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: トーマスにはまだプレゼントをあげないでね。
    english: Please don't give Thomas his present yet. (No particular reason, simply implies 'without
      doing')
  - japanese: もらったクッキーを弟にあげなくて、妹にあげた。
    english: I did not give the cookie I got to my brother, but to my sister. (Implies a specific reason
      for not giving it to the brother)
  - japanese: なる → ならなくて
    english: to become → to not become and...
  - japanese: 嫌い → 嫌いではなくて
    english: dislike → not dislike and...
  - japanese: 病気 → 病気じゃなくて
    english: illness → not an illness and...
  - japanese: 高い → 高くなくて
    english: expensive/tall → not expensive/tall and...
  - japanese: いい → よくなくて
    english: good → not good and...
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なくて-conjunction
false_friends:
  - term: ないで
    meaning: Without doing, Not ~ and ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: ではなくて・じゃなくて
    meaning: Not A but B, Conjunctive
    kind: synonym
  - term: Adjective + て・Noun + で
    meaning: And... (Conjunctive)
    kind: synonym
