grammar_point: に至っては
jlpt: N1
meaning: When it comes to, As for, In particular, What is worse or more
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: に至ってはis an expression which presents the most extreme example for something from within a specific
  category. Due to this, it will usually be translated as 'when it comes to (A), (B)', 'in particular
  to (A) is (B)', or 'with (A) as the most extreme example, (B)'.This is a combination of the case-marking
  particle に, the て-form of the る-Verb至る 'to climax', or 'to culminate in', and theadverbial particleは
  in its standard role of presenting a topic. In this way, the literal meaning of 'culminating within
  (A) is (B)' is quite close to the nuance of the English translations.に至ってはwill appear following nouns,
  or nominalized phrases.CautionAs the verb至る itself is used to present extreme examples or locations
  that are considered to be right 'on the precipice' of something,に至ってはwill primarily present things that
  are surprising or astonishing in some way. This is primarily only used when the example itself is quite
  negative or unfavorable.
examples:
  - japanese: 私の家族は全員機械音痴です。母に至ってはインターネットさえ使えないです。
    english: My whole family is mechanically illiterate. What's more, my mother can't even use the internet.
  - japanese: 最近ここにいる社員みんなのやる気がない。藤田さんに至ってはパソコンもつけていない。
    english: Recently, employees here are unmotivated. As for Fujita-san, their computer isn't even turned
      on.
  - japanese: 漢字テストは49点だった。リスニングに至っては20点だった。
    english: My kanji test's score was 49. What's worse is that my listening score was 20.
  - japanese: あそこのお宅の次男は留年するらしいですよ。長男に至っては学年トップだったらしいですよ。(Unnatural Japanese)
    english: I heard that the second son of the family over there flunked. As for their eldest son, I
      heard that he was at the top of his grade.
  - japanese: 最近の子供は、かろうじてCDは知っているが、フロッピーに至っては全く知らない場合が珍しくない。
    english: Children these days barely know CDs, but when it comes to floppy disks, it is not unusual
      if they know nothing at all about them.
  - japanese: ネット調査によると、将来結婚をしたいと思う人の割合は約40%、子供がほしいと思う人に至っては9％以下だった。
    english: According to an internet survey, the percentage of people who want to get married in the
      future is about 40%, and as for those who want children, it was less than 9%.
  - japanese: 二年前の出生率は女性一人あたり1.8、去年に至っては女性一人あたり1.33と歴史上最低の結果となった。
    english: The birthrate two years ago was 1.8 per woman, as for last year it was 1.33 per woman, which
      was the lowest (result) in history.
  - japanese: 父親はパソコンならともかくスマートフォンに至ってはまるでお手上げらしい。
    english: My father isn't too bad if it is a PC, but when it comes to smartphones he seems to have
      given up.
  - japanese: ２０〇〇年は非常に乾燥していた。４月に至っては二回しか降らなかった。
    english: The year 20XX was a very dry one. April in particular, as it rained only twice.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に至っては
false_friends: []
