grammar_point: だんだん
jlpt: N4
meaning: Gradually, Little by little, Step by step
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: だんだん is an adverb that is used to express the slight, but constant, progression of something.
  Originally, it comes from the kanji construction 段々 , which can be thought of as meaning 'step by step',
  'stepwise', or even 'steadily'. だんだん is similar to ほとんど , in that it can modify the meaning of entire
  phrases, rather than just single words.To use だんだん , simply put it before the phrase that you want to
  express as '(A) that is increasing steadily'.While だんだん can take the particle と , it is not required.
  In fact, と is very often omitted from adverbs/onomatopoeic words (words that represent a sound or motion)
  in Japanese.CautionInitially, it can be easy to mix-up だんだん , with どんどん . どんどん is an onomatopoeic word
  that represents loud banging (like on a drum), so is used to express fast changes/progression. This
  is unlike だんだん , which expresses slower changes/progression.
examples:
  - japanese: だんだん雨が降ってきた。
    english: It is starting to rain. (Slow progression, does not imply great speed or severity)
  - japanese: どんどん雨が降ってきた。
    english: It is starting to rain. (Rapid progression, may imply great speed and/or severity)
  - japanese: 先輩が後輩に話している：「大丈夫、だんだん上手になるよ。」
    english: 'A senpai speaking to their kouhai: ''Don''t worry, you will become better gradually.'''
  - japanese: 友達が話している：「秋になったからこれからだんだん寒くなるよね。」
    english: 'Friends talking: ''Autumn is here, so it will gradually become cooler, don''t you think?'''
  - japanese: 英語の教師が生徒の親と話している、教師：「娘さんはだんだん英語がうまくなってきました。」
    english: 'An English teacher talking with a student''s parents, teacher: ''Your daughter has been
      gradually improving in speaking English.'''
  - japanese: 友達が話している：「だんだんとあのやつの事が嫌いになってきていて、今は避けるようにしている。」
    english: 'Chat between friends: ''I gradually came to dislike that guy, and now I do my best to avoid
      him.'''
  - japanese: お母さんが子供と話している：「あなたはだんだんおかしを食べたくなくなる。」
    english: 'A mother speaking with a child: ''You will gradually lose interest in sweets.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だんだん
false_friends:
  - term: どんどん
    meaning: Progressively, Rapidly increasing, More and more
    kind: synonym
