grammar_point: かな
jlpt: N4
meaning: I wonder
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Originally a mixture of thesentence ending particlesか, and な,かなevolved over time to become its
  own (singular) sentence ending particle, which roughly translates as 'I wonder if (A)?'.As it is asentence
  ending particle,かなcan be added to the end of almost any sentence.Combining the meaningsかand な, we can
  see whereかなgets its original meaning.かpresents questions (usually to other people), while な shows that
  a statement is related purely to the speaker's own thoughts/opinions. In this way,かなexpresses that the
  speaker's own thoughts are being questioned.Fun FactIn the past,かなwas thought of as being a fairly feminine
  way to express 'I wonder', and males tended to use phrases likeだろうかto express the same type of statement.
  However, in modern day Japanese,かなis used by both men and women equally.
examples:
  - japanese: あの人が道の真ん中で倒れてるけど、大丈夫かな。
    english: That person over there is laying collapsed in the middle of the street, but I wonder if they
      are okay.
  - japanese: このコンロにこの魚が入るかな？
    english: I wonder if the fish will fit in this stove.
  - japanese: この通帳はお母さんのだろうか。
    english: I wonder if this is my mother's checkbook. (Slightly masculine)
  - japanese: あの人は本当に弁護士なのかな。
    english: I wonder if that person is really a lawyer. (Commonly used by anybody)
  - japanese: もうすぐ食べに行くかな。
    english: I wonder if we will go eat soon...
  - japanese: 明日は運動をした方がいいかな。
    english: I wonder, if I should exercise tomorrow...
  - japanese: 今週末に友達と会えるかな。
    english: I wonder if I can meet my friends this weekend...
  - japanese: 冷蔵庫にケーキまだあるかな。
    english: I wonder if there is still cake in the fridge.
  - japanese: お母さんは何をくれるかな。
    english: I wonder what my mom will give me.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/かな
false_friends:
  - term: かしら
    meaning: I wonder
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～のだろうか
    meaning: I wonder...
    kind: synonym
  - term: はたして
    meaning: Wonder if ~ (really)?, Wonder how ~ (actually)?, Sure enough, As expected
    kind: synonym
