grammar_point: てはいられない
jlpt: N2
meaning: Can't afford to, Unable to
meaning_warning: Casual:, Verb[て] +ちゃいられない/,じゃいられない
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: てはいられないis a grammar pattern which consists of the conjunction-particle て, は, and the negated-potential
  form of the る-Verb いる 'to be'. Common translations include 'to be unable to (A)', and 'cannot afford
  to (A)'. The literal meaning of 'to not be able to be with (A)' just reflects the impossibility of the
  word that this structure is attached to.This structure is almost exclusively seen with verbs, but may
  occasionally be seen with い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives or nouns as well.The verb thatてはいられないis connected
  to is often considered to be something that cannot continue on due to either some time-based or feeling-based
  limitation. In this way, it regularly has the nuance of '(A) cannot continue due to (B)', with the reason
  of (B) mentioned in another part of the sentence.When appearing with い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives or nouns,
  the nuance will change slightly, and simply reflects the meaning of いられない itself in conveying that (A)
  'cannot be', or is 'impossible' in some way. As always, ては will be replaced by では in the case of nouns
  and な-Adjectives.
examples:
  - japanese: 明日までに提出しないといけないレポートがあるから、遊んではいられない。
    english: I have an essay I need to submit by tomorrow, so I can't afford to hangout.
  - japanese: あと30分で家を出ないといけないので、のんびりご飯を食べてはいられない。
    english: I have to leave the house in 30 minutes, so I am unable to relax and eat my food.
  - japanese: 午後までに終わらせるように先輩に頼まれたから、休んではいられない。
    english: My senpai asked me to finish by this afternoon, so I can't afford to take a break.
  - japanese: 次の大会で勝つには、こんな遅くてはいられない。
    english: We can't afford to be this slow if we want to win the next tournament.
  - japanese: お父さんもいつまでも元気ではいられないんだから、そろそろ健康に気をつけな。
    english: Dad, you can't stay healthy forever, so you should start taking better care of yourself.
  - japanese: もうこんな会社の社員ではいられない。
    english: I can no longer be an employee of this company.
  - japanese: 小野:カラオケに行こう！岩本:すみません、明日の朝までに数学の宿題をしなくちゃいけないから、カラオケしては居られない。
    english: 'Ono: ''Let''s go to karaoke!'' Iwamoto: ''Sorry, I have math homework to finish by tomorrow
      morning so I can''t afford to go to karaoke.'''
  - japanese: 友達への自分の仕事の愚痴：「また週末上司に仕事をさせられた。このままじゃ居られない。転職するつもりだよ。」
    english: 'Complaining to a friend about one''s job: ''I have been forced to work on the weekend again
      by the boss. It cannot be like this. I plan to change jobs.'''
  - japanese: 私は一日たりとも日本語の勉強なしでは居られない。
    english: I can't afford to even go a day without learning Japanese.
  - japanese: 時間がない。下書きしては居られない。
    english: There is no time. I can't afford to make a rough draft.
  - japanese: 彼は実績を上げています。負けては居られません。
    english: He is achieving results. He can't afford to lose.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てはいられない
false_friends:
  - term: ないではいられない
    meaning: Cannot help doing something, Cannot resist doing something
    kind: synonym
  - term: わけにはいかない
    meaning: Cannot afford to, No way, Impossible to do
    kind: synonym
