grammar_point: Noun＋型
jlpt: N3
meaning: Model, Type, Pattern, Kind, Shape, Size(d)
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 型, or sometimes形, are two kanji that are often used as asuffix, to identify that something is
  'shaped', or 'sized' according to (A). The primary reading of both of these kanji is かた, but becomes
  がた due to連濁(sound changes due to conjugation).型can be attached directly to the end of nouns, or toい-Adjectives.
  Occasionally,型will be used after thecase marking particleの. In these cases, because it is connected
  to の, and not directly to the noun, it will be read as かた, not がた.Although there are two different kanji
  that can be used in this expression,型will be used far more frequently than形. This is primarily due to
  the base meanings that these kanji have. Those meanings are as follows:型- Form (in regard to design,
  pattern, type, or model)形- Shape (in regard to physical shapes only. Square, rectangle, triangle, etc)Due
  to this,型is used when describing any form/pattern that is abstract, while形is primarily only used for
  describing very basic (visible) shapes.CautionOccasionally,型may be read as型, the音読み (Chinese reading)
  of型. This is primarily when it is paired with other words that also use their音読み, or when it is not
  acting as asuffix, but part of a set word.
examples:
  - japanese: この紙を星形に切ってください。
    english: Please cut this paper into the shape of a star.
  - japanese: この型のスマホはよく壊れます。
    english: This type of smartphone breaks often.
  - japanese: 90年代には犬型のロボットのおもちゃが人気だった。
    english: During the 90s, dog-type robots were popular.
  - japanese: 新しい型の自転車はいつ発売されますか？
    english: When is the new model of this bike coming out?
  - japanese: 次はどんな髪型にしよう。
    english: What kind of hairstyle should I get next?
  - japanese: 私はハート形のアクセサリーが好きです。
    english: I like heart-shaped accessories.
  - japanese: 文型は基本なのでしっかりと勉強しておきましょう。
    english: Grammar structures are the basics, so make sure to properly study them in advance.
  - japanese: 整数はデータ型の一つである。
    english: An integer is one of the data types.
  - japanese: 黒帯を持つにはすべての基本の型を知っていなければなりません。
    english: In order to achieve a black belt, you have to know all the basic forms.
  - japanese: きみの血液型は何？
    english: What is your blood type?
  - japanese: これは君を殺すために時に送り込まれた人間型のロボットに違いない。
    english: There is no doubt that this is a humanoid robot that has been sent through time to kill you.
  - japanese: 「よう」という表現はさまざまな文型に使われている。
    english: The expression 'よう' is used in various sentence patterns.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/noun-型
false_friends: []
