grammar_point: わけだ
jlpt: N3
meaning: Should, Ought
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: One of the most misunderstood words in Japanese is訳. Of the many ways it can be translated, the
  most common are 'reason', 'cause', 'meaning', or 'conclusion'. Despite this, it may be beneficial to
  consider it almost identical to an equally versatile English word 'so'.In all of its uses, わけ simply
  highlights the plain existence/determination of something in the same way that 'so' does in English.
  This can be seen in its most basic form inわけだ. A combination of わけ and theauxiliary verbだ.わけだwill be
  used at the end of sentences, and is sometimes preceded by という. This use is often translated as 'for
  the reason of (A)', 'no wonder its (A)', or 'its (A), as you'd expect'. Realistically though, it just
  means 'it is so that it's (A)', or 'so it's (A)'.Due to わけ being a noun, it will need to follow theattributive
  formof whatever word comes before it. As we can see 'so' and わけ have an extremely close pattern of nuances,
  ranging from 'because', all the way through to simple emphasis (like with 'naturally', and 'as you'd
  expect').わけ may also be used in questions, implying that the speaker is trying to determine something
  that they have heard. わけだね 'so its (A) right?', and わけですか 'so is it that (A)?' are good examples of
  this.
examples:
  - japanese: 事故で電車が遅れたの？だから珍しく遅れて来たというわけだ。
    english: The train was late due to an accident? So that's why you came in unusually late.
  - japanese: 指の骨が折れていたのですね。だから指を動かしたら痛かったという訳ですね。
    english: You are saying that my finger was broken? So that's why my finger hurt when I moved it.
  - japanese: やっぱり全然練習してないでしょ？どうりで一年たっても下手なわけだ。
    english: As I expected, you didn't practice at all, did you? No wonder you haven't improved even after
      a year.
  - japanese: 今日は休日か。だから定休日のわけだ。
    english: Today is a holiday, isn't it? So that's why they are closed today.
  - japanese: 俺と一緒にいたくないわけだね?分かったよ。
    english: So you are saying that you don't want to be with me, right? I understand.
  - japanese: 先輩たちは後から来るというわけですか？
    english: Senpai, so will you be coming later?
  - japanese: 雪が降っていた。寒い訳だ。
    english: It snowed. This is why it is cold.
  - japanese: お金を無駄に使っている。貯金がない訳です。
    english: You waste your money. No wonder you have no savings.
  - japanese: 彼女は医者になりたいから、医学の勉強をする訳だ。
    english: Since she wants to be a doctor, this is why she is studying in the medical field.(as you'd
      expect)
  - japanese: 道理でうまくいかなかった訳だ。前提がずっと間違っていたのだから。
    english: No wonder it didn't turn out well. The premise was wrong all along.
  - japanese: 人一倍努力している。彼は成功する訳だ。
    english: He works twice as hard as others. This is why, he is successful.(as you'd expect)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/わけだ
false_friends:
  - term: はずがない
    meaning: Hardly possible, Cannot be, Highly unlikely, Improbable
    kind: antonym
  - term: だけのことはある
    meaning: No wonder, Not surprising that, As expected
    kind: synonym
  - term: はずだ
    meaning: Bound to (be), Expected to (be), Should be (able)
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけに
    meaning: As might be expected, Because, All the more because, It's only natural
    kind: synonym
  - term: ため(に)
    meaning: For, For the sake of, In order to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことだ
    meaning: Should, Ought
    kind: synonym
