grammar_point: に対して
jlpt: N3
meaning: In contrast to, While, In regard to, Whereas
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: に対するandに対してare two grammar patterns in Japanese that are regularly used to show when (B) is 'opposed
  to' or 'in contrast with' (A).対する itself is a verb meaning 'to oppose'. Although this feeling of 'opposition'
  may be negative, in most circumstances, it just means 'toward' in the sense of targeting something.に対するwill
  be followed directly by a second noun, whileに対してcreates a pause in the sentence, before (B) will be
  explained in the second half of that sentence.Fun FactCompared toに関して(another structure used to show
  how things 'relate' to each other),に対してfocuses on (A) and (B) equally, explaining how those things interact,
  compare, or contrast each other.CautionAsに対してstrongly contrasts (A) and (B), this grammar structure
  will often be used to express differences between two things. This is very similar to 'whereas' in English.
examples:
  - japanese: 君に対する気持ちは一生変わらない。
    english: My feelings toward you will never change.
  - japanese: 私は店員に対する態度が悪い人が苦手です。
    english: I don't like people who have a bad attitude towards store employees. (People who target their
      bad attitude at store employees)
  - japanese: ああいう風に、先輩に対してタメ口を使うのは良くないと思うよ。
    english: I don't think it is best to talk to a senpai using casual speech in that manner. (Talking
      casually toward a senior)
  - japanese: 何でいつも私に対してそういう酷いことを言うの？
    english: Why do you always say mean things like that to me? (With me as the target)
  - japanese: このプロジェクトに関して質問がある方は私に直接電話をしてください。
    english: If you have any questions concerning this project, please give me a call directly. (Questions
      in relation to this project)
  - japanese: 私はサッカーが好きなのに対して、彼はバドミントンが好き。
    english: In contrast to me liking soccer, he likes badminton. (Opposed to me who likes soccer)
  - japanese: マサミは難しい本を読んだのに対して、カスミは簡単な本を読んだ。
    english: Masami read a difficult book, whereas Kasumi read an easy book.
  - japanese: 彼の仕事は楽なのに対して、僕の仕事はものすごく大変。
    english: His job is carefree, whereas my job is very difficult.
  - japanese: この部分に対して質問が多かった。ちょっと難しかったのかしら...。
    english: There were many questions regarding this part. I wonder if it was too difficult...
  - japanese: 日本の教育制度に対してどう思う？
    english: What are your thoughts in regards to the Japanese school system?
  - japanese: イギリス人がビールを好きなのに対して、フランス人は赤ワインが好きだ。
    english: English people like drinking beer in contrast to French people who like red wine.
  - japanese: 誰に対しても親切な人になりたい。
    english: I want to be nice towards anyone and everyone.
  - japanese: 大人に対してそんな失礼な態度を取ってはいけません。
    english: You must not be so rude toward adults.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に対して
false_friends:
  - term: 反面
    meaning: While, On the other hand, Although, However, On the flip side
    kind: synonym
  - term: に関する・に関して
    meaning: Related to, About, Regarding
    kind: synonym
  - term: について
    meaning: Concerning, About, Regarding
    kind: synonym
  - term: にかけては
    meaning: When it comes to, Regarding, Concerning
    kind: synonym
  - term: において・における
    meaning: In, On, At, Regarding, In terms of
    kind: synonym
