grammar_point: 飽くまで(も)
jlpt: N1
meaning: Just, Only, Merely, Strictly
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 飽く is the old-fashioned and somewhat poetic version of飽きる the る-Verb meaning 'to tire of (A)',
  or 'to get sick of (A)'. When used in conjunction with theadverbial particlesまで 'until',飽くまでcan imply
  that (A) is 'just', 'only', or 'strictly' something. The more literal translation of 'to continue (A)
  to the point of getting tired of it' fits these interpretations quite well, implying that (A) will never
  deviate from what is being described about it. This use of飽くまでoften appears at the beginning of a phrase,
  and functions adverbially. Theadverbial particleも 'even' may be added for extra emphasis, but it is
  not required.In many cases,飽くまでwill be used in polite sentences when the speaker is expressing their
  own opinion. In these cases, the nuance of 'this is merely my opinion' is conveying to the listener
  that the speaker realizes that what they are saying is not the only viewpoint.This way of highlighting
  opinions is often combined with structures like けど, or が when the speaker wants to soften their statement
  before offering what they think a solution might be.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼はあくまでも新人なので優しく接してあげてください。
    english: He is merely a newbie, so please treat him kindly.
  - japanese: それはあくまで可能性に過ぎないからなんの役にも立たない。
    english: That is merely a possibility, so it doesn't help.
  - japanese: 私はあくまでも素人に過ぎませんが、設計にミスがあると思います。
    english: I am just an amateur, but I think that there is a mistake in the design.
  - japanese: これはあくまで私の意見なので参考にしないでくださいね。
    english: This is just my opinion, so please don't refer to it.
  - japanese: 会社の代表はビジネスパートナーに：「今からお話しすることは、飽くまで私の個人的な意見で、会社としての公式な意見ではないことをご了承いただきたいのですが、...」
    english: 'Company representative to business partners: ''What I am about to say is just my personal
      opinion, so please understand that this is not our official stance as a company…'''
  - japanese: 配偶者１は配偶者２に：「もうガスがちゃんと閉めてあるか確認したのを知ってるけど、もう一度確認してね。飽くまでも一応だけどね。」
    english: 'Spouse 1 to Spouse 2: ''I know you have already checked if the gas is turned off, but please
      check again. Just to be sure.'''
  - japanese: 「その影響で東京オリンピックは20XX年も開催できないと思います。でもまぁ、飽くまでも私の想像に過ぎないので、真剣に考えないでください。」
    english: '''I think that due to its influence, the Olympics might also not happen in 20XX. But this
      is just what I imagine will happen, so don''t look into it too much.'''
  - japanese: 学術論文：「このアルゴリズムの実世界での使用法は場合によって異なりますので、飽くまでも本稿はガイドラインとして取り扱いください。」
    english: 'Scientific article: ''The real-world application of this algorithm differs from case to
      case, therefore use this paper just as a reference.'''
  - japanese: 探偵：「その火が上がったのは偶然ではなかったかもしれない。まぁ、これは飽くまで僕の仮説ですが。」
    english: 'Detective: ''That fire might not have been entirely an accident. This is just my hypothesis,
      though.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/飽くまで-も
false_friends: []
