grammar_point: あげく
jlpt: N2
meaning: After, In the end, After all, Eventually
meaning_warning: 'Kanji Reading: 挙げ句 or 挙句'
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 挙句'in the end', is a noun used in Japanese to express a negative result that occurs, despite
  a considerable amount of time, effort, or resources that was put into (A).あげくwill often be used in situations
  where the escalating situation of (A) somehow caused or prompted the negative result of (B).あげくwill
  appear after the past-tense form of verbs, or after nouns followed by の.Alternatively,あげくmay be used
  to express some sort of troublesome or negative process that led to the conclusion of (B). In these
  cases, the outcome itself may not be undesirable, but arriving at that result of (B) somehow was.Caution
  -あげくwill most often be in hiragana, but the forms挙句and挙げ句are also quite common.Fun-fact -挙句originally
  referred to the final line of a連歌(a form of early Japanese poetry), and literally means 'the tying up
  phrase', or 'the concluding phrase'.
examples:
  - japanese: 私は夫と話し合いをしたあげく、離婚することに決めた。
    english: After having a discussion with my husband, we have decided that we are getting a divorce.
  - japanese: 昨日落とした財布を長い時間探したあげく、見つける事ができなかったので交番に行った。
    english: After looking for my wallet that I dropped yesterday, I couldn't find it, so I went to the
      police station.
  - japanese: 田中さんと中田さんは口論のあげく、喧嘩になってしまい、警察のお世話になった。
    english: After an argument, Mr. Tanaka and Ms. Nakata got into a fight and were taken care of by the
      police.
  - japanese: 先生と色々と相談したあげく、レポートを書き直すことにした。
    english: After much discussion with the teacher, I decided to rewrite the report.
  - japanese: 父親との議論のあげく、俺は大学を中退して会社を継ぐことになった。
    english: After some discussion with my father, I decided to drop out of college and take over his
      company.
  - japanese: 走って転んだ挙げ句に、壁に衝突した。
    english: After running and falling, I crashed into a wall.
  - japanese: 数時間スーパーで歩き回った挙げ句に何も買わず家に帰った。
    english: After walking around at the supermarket for a few hours, I went home without buying anything.
  - japanese: ３時間林で迷った挙げ句に、道を探すのを諦めた。１時間後に、森林管理官が見つけてくれた。
    english: After I got lost in the woods for three hours, I gave up searching for a way out. After an
      hour I was found by a forester.
  - japanese: 試験の合格のために徹夜したからバスに乗り遅れた挙げ句に、試験も受けられなかった。
    english: Because I sat up all night in order to pass the test I missed the bus and I didn't take the
      test in the end.
  - japanese: さんざん考えた挙げ句に親の意に反して大学を辞めた。
    english: After considering it thoughtfully I have quit university against wishes of my parents.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/あげく
false_friends:
  - term: た末・の末
    meaning: After, As a conclusion of
    kind: synonym
