grammar_point: 始末だ
jlpt: N1
meaning: Ends up, Finally, In the end, (Unfortunately) As a result, This is what happened, To come about,
  To wind up
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 始末, a noun meaning ‘settlement’, or ‘end result’ is commonly used in order to indicate a negative
  sequence of events that has been passed through, causing an equally negative result to come about at
  the end. It will be translated as ‘to wind up as (A)’, ‘to end up as (A)’, or ‘to come about that (A)’.This
  expression will be used primarily after verbs in theirdictionary form.Due to始末being used to highlight
  negative outcomes that are the result of going through a specific event, it will often appear in sentences
  that also include words like とうとう ‘to come to a head’,挙げ句‘after a long process’, or結局‘in the end’. It
  may seem redundant to include these phrases, but as始末has the more literal translation of ‘to culminate
  in’ (including everything from beginning to end), it is more emphatic, rather than redundant.
examples:
  - japanese: あんだけダブルチェックをするように言ったのに、この始末だ。
    english: I told him so many times to double check, but this is the result.
  - japanese: みんなで祭りに行くつもりだったのに、みんながドタキャンするから、結局一人で行く始末だ。
    english: We were supposed to go to the festival together, but everyone canceled suddenly, so I ended
      up going alone.
  - japanese: その客は店中をぐちゃぐちゃにしたあげく、何も買わないで帰る始末だ。
    english: After messing up the whole store, they ended up leaving without buying anything.
  - japanese: 武田さんは小さな声で職場でハラスメントを受けたことを伝えてきて、しまいに大きな声で泣き出す始末だ。
    english: Takeda-san quietly told me that she was being harassed at work, and wound up crying out loud.
  - japanese: あいつは、自分が起こしたミスなのに、謝るどころか私のせいにする始末だ。
    english: Even though it was a mistake that he had made, far from apologizing, he ended up blaming
      me!
  - japanese: せっかく友達と海へ行く計画を立てたのに、田中は大事な用があって行けないとか、武田もシフトが入ってたとかで、結局私一人だけで行く始末だ。
    english: Even though I went out of my way to plan this trip to the beach with friends, Tanaka said
      that he had something important to do and couldn't go, while Takeda said that he had a shift. So
      I ended up going all by myself.
  - japanese: 武田「山田さん、顔色が悪いですけど・・・」山田「夜遅くまでゲームをしていたので、おかげでこの始末だ。」
    english: 'Takeda: ''Yamada-san, you don''t look so good...''Yamada ''I was playing video games until
      late at night, and this is the result.'''
  - japanese: 田中には二度と仕事は頼まないぞ。納期は守らないし仕上がりも悪かったのに、言い訳ばかりならべて。最後には追加の料金を払えと言い出す始末だ。
    english: I'll never ask Tanaka to work for me again. He can't meet deadlines, his workmanship is poor,
      and he only gives excuse after excuse. In the end he told me to pay an additional fee.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/始末だ
false_friends: []
