grammar_point: もらう
jlpt: N5
meaning: To give (away), To present, To provide
meaning_warning: Unlike あげる and くれる, に (or から) marks the giver, not the recipient
details:
  Part of Speech: Independent Word
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 動詞
  単語の種類: 自立語
  使用域: 一般
writeup: もらう is the 3rd verb that is regularly taught together with くれる , and あげる . It is used to highlight
  that (A) is 'received' by someone. However, unlike くれる and あげる (which are used to highlight that something
  is 'given'), もらう requires the に particle (or から ) to mark the giver, not the recipient. が or は may be
  used to mark the recipient, as they are the one performing the action of receiving. を will mark the
  object that is being given.In the second sentence we can see that the recipient has been omitted, while
  in the third example, the giver was omitted. This is a regular occurrence when using もらう , as the receiver
  is usually obvious, or the 'giver' may not be important to the overall meaning of the sentence.In this
  example, the thing that was given is the focus, while the speaker does not consider the 'giver' something
  that needs to be mentioned. Sometimes, for very simple sentences with clear context, neither the 'giver',
  nor the 'receiver' needs to be mentioned.
examples:
  - japanese: 私はお祖母さんからおはしとコップをもらった。
    english: I received chopsticks and a glass from my grandmother.
  - japanese: 彼女に(私は)青い花をもらいます。
    english: (I) receive blue flowers from her (my girlfriend).
  - japanese: (私は)友達に暖かいセーターをもらった。
    english: (I) received a warm sweater from (my) friend.
  - japanese: 父から(私は)お金をもらった。
    english: (I) received money from my father.
  - japanese: (私は)明後日給料をもらいます。
    english: (I) receive (my) salary the day after next.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/もらう
false_friends:
  - term: てもらう
    meaning: To get someone to do, To have someone do
    kind: synonym
  - term: くれる
    meaning: To give (me), To be given
    kind: synonym
  - term: あげる
    meaning: To give (away), To present, To provide
    kind: synonym
