grammar_point: を問わず
jlpt: N2
meaning: Regardless of, Whether or not, No matter, With or without
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: を問わずis a pattern which makes use of the special-class う-Verb問う 'to inquire' and theliterary auxiliary
  verbず, which connects with verbs in the same way, and carries the same meaning as ない. While the literal
  meaning of this grammar structure is 'without questioning (A), (B)', it is used more as a formal way
  to express 'regardless of (A), (B)', 'whether (A) or not, (B)', or 'with or without (A)', (B)'.This
  structure is seen almost exclusively after nouns, but can also follow structures like か, or かどうか that
  are modifying adjectives. を will mark the 'question' which is 'not being asked'.Occasionally, は will
  replace を at the beginning of 問わず. This puts further emphasis on contrast, and slightly strengthens
  the phrase overall.Caution - Althoughを問わずmay be thought of as similar to 'regardless', there are actually
  situations where the nuance is closer to 'in any case for (A), (B)'. This is particularly true when
  (A) is being expressed as a scope. Let's compareを問わずtoに関わらずto see the difference.
examples:
  - japanese: 宗教や国籍を問わず、このイベントには誰でも参加できます。
    english: Everyone is welcome to attend this event, regardless of religion or nationality.
  - japanese: パソコンの上級者か初心者かを問わず、初めてこのサービスをお使いになられる方には初心者コースから始めてもらいます。
    english: Whether you are an advanced computer user or a beginner, we ask first-time users of this
      service to start with the beginner course.
  - japanese: このマンションを買うかどうかを問わず、この物件を押さえたい場合は手付金を払ってください。
    english: If you want to hold on to this property, whether you buy this apartment or not, you must
      pay a deposit.
  - japanese: どのブランドかは問わず、とにかく新しい靴が欲しいです。
    english: I just want a new pair of shoes, regardless of which brand.
  - japanese: 彼は昼夜を問わず、ずっと働いている。
    english: Whether it is day or night, he is always working.
  - japanese: 彼は昼夜に関わらず、ずっと働いている。
    english: Regardless of day or night, he is always working.
  - japanese: 学歴や経験を問わず、やる気のある応募者を雇う！
    english: We are hiring motivated applicants with or without experience or academic background! (regardless
      of)
  - japanese: 裕福な家庭であるか否かを問わず、日本では初等・中等教育は無料だ！
    english: (Regardless of) whether the family is wealthy or not, primary and secondary education is
      free in Japan!
  - japanese: 私は彼女と結婚したい。手段を問わない。
    english: I want to marry her! No matter what. (regardless・whether or not)
  - japanese: このアプリケーションは、管理者権限の有無を問わず誰でも使うことができる。
    english: This application can be used by anyone, (regardless of) whether they have administrator's
      rights or not.
  - japanese: 買う買わないを問わず、商品を試しに来てください。
    english: (Regardless of) whether you will buy it or not, please come and try the product.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/を問わず
false_friends:
  - term: にもかかわらず
    meaning: Despite, In spite of, Regardless, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: にかかわらず
    meaning: Regardless of, Whether or, No matter, With or without
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～ても～なくても
    meaning: Whether ~ or not
    kind: synonym
  - term: どうしても
    meaning: Regardless of, No matter what
    kind: synonym
  - term: にせよ・にしろ
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter, Whether… or
    kind: synonym
