grammar_point: すぎる
jlpt: N5
meaning: Too much, Very
meaning_warning: 良すぎる = よすぎる, not いすぎる or よさすぎる
details:
  Part of Speech: Independent Word
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 動詞
  単語の種類: 自立語
  使用域: 一般
writeup: すぎる is a verb that is used in Japanese to mean 'to exceed', or 'to go past'. It keeps this meaning
  when it is attached to other words, and creates the Japanese equivalent of saying that something is
  'too much'. すぎる can be joined to the ます stem of verbs, the stem form of い-Adjectives (simply remove
  the い), or the stem form of な-Adjectives (simply remove the な ).With すぎる , the る is regularly omitted,
  with すぎ being used by itself. This is a casual language pattern, and something you will hear all the
  time. This variation may be used with any word that すぎる would usually be used with.There are a few rules
  that you will need to be careful about when using すぎる . The first of these unique rules is using すぎる
  with ない . When linked to ない , the い changes to さ, creating the structure なさすぎる . This means 'too much
  not (A)', or more naturally in English 'not enough (A)'.As with regular ない forms, では or じゃ will be required
  when used after な-Adjectives .In the third example here, we can see that the さ has been omitted. This
  is technically not correct Japanese, but has become very common among young people, so it still sounds
  natural.The second unique rule is when using すぎる with いい to mean 'too good'. Because すぎる is used with
  the stem form of い-Adjectives , you will need to remember that the stem form of いい is not actually い,
  but よ. This means that よすぎる would be correct, while いすぎる is not.CautionBecause すぎる itself is a verb,
  it can also appear in the negative form, this confuses a lot of learners, and is something that needs
  to be practiced. Let's have a look at all of the ways that すぎる could possibly appear with ない .Because
  the meaning is different in each one of these sentences, depending on where the ない is, and how many
  ない 's there are, you may need to be careful while reading these, until it starts to feel natural.
examples:
  - japanese: 学校に行かなさすぎるから成績が落ちた。
    english: Because I don't go to school enough, my grades are going down. (Literally, I don't go too
      much)
  - japanese: 彼はトイレに行かなさすぎない。
    english: He doesn't not go to the toilet enough. (A double negative that becomes positive)
  - japanese: ゲームセンターには行きすぎないでね。
    english: Don't go to the arcade too often. (The negative focus is on 'too much', and sounds more like
      a request)
  - japanese: ここはゴミが多すぎる。
    english: There is too much garbage here.
  - japanese: この寿司は美味しすぎる。
    english: This sushi is too delicious.
  - japanese: アイスクリームを食べすぎたからお腹が痛い。
    english: Because I ate too much ice cream, my stomach hurts.
  - japanese: その冗談は面白くなさすぎた。
    english: That joke was not funny at all.(Literally - Was too much not funny)
  - japanese: いつも週末に寝すぎます。
    english: I always sleep too much on the weekends.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/すぎる
false_friends:
  - term: あまり
    meaning: So much...that
    kind: synonym
  - term: あまりに
    meaning: So much...that, (Way) too...
    kind: synonym
