grammar_point: にせよ・にしろ
jlpt: N2
meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter, Whether… or
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: にせよ, andにしろare two phrases that are often translated as 'even if (A)', or 'no matter if (A)'.
  This structure is a combination of に, and either of the imperative forms of する; せよ, or しろ. せよ tends
  to be more common in written material, while しろ is more common in speech. Despite the English translations,
  this particular use of the imperative form of する translates more accurately to 'so it's (A), who cares!',
  as the speaker is just strongly stating that the actual condition of (A) is unimportant in relation
  to what they actually want to say.にせよandにしろcan appear following verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives or
  nouns in any of their standard forms.As this structure is fairly direct, in most cases it will be used
  as a way to emphasize that regardless of what the case is for (A), (B) is still true, or is the more
  important matter to consider.
examples:
  - japanese: 飲み会に参加しないにせよ、参加費は明日までに持ってきてください。
    english: Even if you are not going to attend the drinking party, please bring your entrance fee by
      tomorrow.
  - japanese: 怖いにしろ、私の仕事なのでやらなくてはならない。
    english: Even though it scares me, I have to do it because it's my job.
  - japanese: どんなに不便であるにせよ、私は自然が豊かな田舎に住みたいです。
    english: Even if it would be very inconvenient, I would prefer to live in the countryside where nature
      is abundant.
  - japanese: あの人は相手が子供にしろ、一切手加減はしない。
    english: That person does not take it easy at all, even if the opponent is a child.
  - japanese: どんな事情があったにしろ、締め切りは先週だった。もう少し締め切りよりも早く書類を提出してもよかった。
    english: No matter the circumstances, the deadline was a week ago. It would have been better to have
      submitted the documents before the deadline.
  - japanese: 悪い結果にしろ、いつかハードワークが報われる時が来るでしょう。
    english: Even if the results are bad, eventually hard work will pay off.
  - japanese: 詩人：「私が死亡するにせよ青銅の記念碑より詩で永続する記憶が存在するだろう。」
    english: 'Poet: ''Even if I die, with my poems, I have created a legacy that will last longer than
      any bronze monument.'''
  - japanese: たとえこちらが正当であるにせよ、いま抗議するのはタイミングが悪い。
    english: Even if we are right, this is not the time to protest.
  - japanese: 違いがあるにせよ、わずかな差だ。
    english: Even if there is a difference it is minimal.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にせよ-にしろ
false_friends:
  - term: たところで
    meaning: Even if ~ cannot or will not, Even though ~ not
    kind: synonym
  - term: ても
    meaning: Even if, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても
    meaning: Even though, Even if, Even when, Also
    kind: synonym
  - term: たとえ〜ても
    meaning: Even if…is the case, Supposing that
    kind: synonym
  - term: どうしても
    meaning: Regardless of, No matter what
    kind: synonym
  - term: であれ
    meaning: Even if, Even, No matter
    kind: synonym
  - term: であれ〜であれ
    meaning: Whether or, Or, No matter which, In either case
    kind: synonym
  - term: とはいえ
    meaning: Though, Although (I admit that), Be that as it may, Nonetheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしろ～にしろ
    meaning: Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: を問わず
    meaning: Regardless of, Whether or not, No matter, With or without
    kind: synonym
