grammar_point: ことか
jlpt: N3
meaning: How…, What..., God knows...
meaning_warning: いくたび・いくど
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ことか is a combination of こと 'thing', and the case marking particle か, used to present a question.In
  sentences with ことか , words that highlight some particular number or extent are often used, before ことか
  comes at the end of the statement, expressing that 'extent' as being particularly unusual, or even unbelievable
  (thanks to the addition of か). This is often translated simply as 'how (A)', 'what (A)', or even 'god
  knows (A)'. Let's look at a few examples.Literally, ことか can be translated as 'to what particular (A)
  is (B)!?', as the enquiry is often not directed at anyone specifically, but instead presents itself
  as a question simply to emphasize its magnitude.CautionIn modern Japanese, this expression is used primarily
  in written language, and has a tendency to sound either poetic, or dramatic. Because of this, it may
  sound unnatural in daily speech, unless the speaker is purposely being dramatic.
examples:
  - japanese: どれだけお前の事を愛していたことか！それでも俺はお前に裏切られた！
    english: God knows how much I loved you! Still, you betrayed me.
  - japanese: 知らない人にありがとうと言われるのがどれだけ嬉しいことか。
    english: God knows how nice it feels to have a stranger thank you.
  - japanese: これをどれだけ待っていた事か。
    english: God knows how long I have waited for this!
  - japanese: 文法を勉強するためのサイトを今まで何度、試した事か！
    english: Until now, god knows how many sites I have tried learning grammar on!
  - japanese: 文プロがあってどんなに便利な事か！
    english: How convenient it is to have Bunpro!
  - japanese: 君に会えてどんなに嬉しかった事か。
    english: How happy I was after meeting you!
  - japanese: 子供のころ、この喫茶店に行ったことがある。あの時のドーナツは、何とうまかった事か。
    english: When I was a child, there was a time we went to this coffee shop. God knows how delicious
      these donuts were!
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことか
false_friends:
  - term: ものか
    meaning: Definitely not, Absolutely not, Impossible, Do you really think~?
    kind: synonym
  - term: 一体
    meaning: (What) the heck?, (Who) in the world?, (Where) on earth?, (How many) f*ing...
    kind: synonym
