grammar_point: ばよかった
jlpt: N4
meaning: Should have, I wish, It would have been better to
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ばよかったis a common expression used when someone regrets that something has not been/was not done.
  It is a pairing of theconjunction particleば, and the past form of theい-Adjective,良い(remembering that
  conjugations ofいいuse よ, and not い). This construction is often translated to 'I wish I did (A)', or
  'I should have done (A)'.ばよかったis used after verbs, so requires the standardばconjugation, before addingよかった.Asばhighlights
  hypothetical situations,ばよかったliterally means that 'it would have been good if (A)', where (A) is the
  thing that the speaker wishes had happened.Fun FactThis grammar point is in direct contrast toばいい, the
  non-past version, which is used to express 'it would be good if (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: サービスエリアが一つもないじゃないか。高速に乗る前にトイレに行けばよかった。
    english: There aren't any service stops, are there? I wish I had gone to the bathroom before we got
      on the highway.
  - japanese: 今日も残業？昨日は早く寝ればよかった。
    english: I have to work overtime again today? I should have gone to sleep early last night.
  - japanese: 運転をしたくなかったら、電車で行けばいい。
    english: If you don't want to drive, it would be better if you went by train.
  - japanese: 次の電車を待てば良かったです。
    english: I should have waited for the next train.
  - japanese: ゲームより勉強をすれば良かったです。
    english: It would have been better to study rather than play games.
  - japanese: 天気予報を見れば良かったです。
    english: I should have looked at the weather forecast.
  - japanese: スーパーに行った時牛乳を買えば良かった。
    english: I should have bought milk while I was at the store.
  - japanese: 寝ないで、日本語を勉強すれば良かった。
    english: It would have been better to study Japanese rather than sleep.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ばよかった
false_friends:
  - term: たらいい・といい
    meaning: It would be nice if, It would be good if, Should, I hope
    kind: synonym
  - term: てよかった
    meaning: I'm glad that
    kind: synonym
