grammar_point: ～てやる
jlpt: N1
meaning: Just wait and see, Just you wait, To do a favor, For you, Definitely, For sure
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: The う-Verb やる, occasionally seen in the kanji form遣る, primarily means ‘to do’, but can also mean
  ‘to give’ as the casual form of あげる. When attached to the て-form of verbs, it acts as asubsidiary verb.
  When substituting for あげる, it will often sound patronizing, or that the speaker is doing an action because
  it is unavoidable, and the person they are doing it for cannot do it themselves. This will be translated
  as ‘to do for’.In other cases, やる acts more like見せる ‘to show’, and indicates the speaker’s strong will
  to perform an action. In these cases, it will be translated as ‘I will do (A), just wait and see’, or
  ‘I’ll definitely do (A)’.However, in either the place of あげる or みせる, the underlying meaning is just
  ‘to do’, with emphasis on the doer being the person that is in power over the result of the action due
  to their superiority.
examples:
  - japanese: いいよいいよ、俺がやってやるからお前は見とけ。
    english: Don’t worry about it, I’ll do it for you, so just watch.
  - japanese: 今夜は俺が奢ってやるから、どんどん好きなもん頼めばいいからな。
    english: I’m going to pay for you, so don’t hesitate and order whatever you want.
  - japanese: 絶対奇麗になって見返してやる！
    english: I am going to become pretty and prove them wrong, just wait!
  - japanese: こうなったら勝ってやるしかないだろ。
    english: Well, in a situation like this there is no other choice but to win!
  - japanese: アクション映画のマッチョな主人公：「ぶっころしてやる！」
    english: 'The macho protagonist in an action movie: ''I''m gonna kill you!'''
  - japanese: お金がなくて行きたい大学に行けないという状況：「金持ちになってやる！」
    english: 'The situation of not being able to go to the school one wants to, due to money problems:
      ''I will get rich, just you wait!'''
  - japanese: 低得点で馬鹿にされた後：「絶対、次のテストでは100点取って、あいつをみかえしてやる。」
    english: 'After being ridiculed for a low score: ''I will definitely score 100 on the next test and
      prove I''m better than that dude, just you wait!'''
  - japanese: 「絶対、合格してやる！」
    english: '''I will surely pass, just wait and see!'''
  - japanese: A子：「こっちからあっちまで競走しよ！」 B子：「いいよ、かってやる!」
    english: 'Child A: ''Let''s race from here to there!'' Child B: ''Okay! I''ll win!'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/てやる
false_friends: []
