grammar_point: 込む ②
jlpt: N3
meaning: Remain, To do thoroughly, Deeply, Intensely
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: In Japanese, the う - Verb込む 'to jam into' is frequently used as asuffixto convey several different
  meanings. The primary meanings are as follows:(A)込む - To enter completely into doing (A), or the state
  of being in (A).(A)込む - To enter a state of doing (A) that will not be considered complete until 'success'.(A)込む
  - To enter a state of doing (A) that cannot be escaped from.In this lesson, we will exclusively focus
  on the second and third meanings, which are usually translated as 'to remain in (A)', 'to thoroughly
  do (A)', 'to do (A) deeply', or 'to do (A) intensely'. This form will be attached to theconjunctive
  formof other verbs.Despite the multiple meanings,込む can almost always be thought of as 'jamming (B)
  into (A)'. This means that whatever the (A) action is, will be something that is not easily entered,
  but also not easily escaped from.
examples:
  - japanese: 警察が道の真ん中で座り込んでいる人に話しかけた。
    english: The police went to talk to the person that remained seated in the middle of the road.
  - japanese: もうこんな時間か、話し込んじゃったな。
    english: It's already this time, we got lost in talking, didn't we?
  - japanese: そんなに考え込まなくてもいいよ。
    english: You don't have to think so deeply about this.
  - japanese: 今は取り込み中なので手が空いたらかけなおします。
    english: I am held up working right now, so I will call you back once my hands are free.
  - japanese: みんないっせいに黙まり込んでいた。
    english: At once, everyone sunk into an intense silence and remained silent.
  - japanese: 疲れていたので、シャワーを浴びずに眠り込んだ。
    english: I was tired, so I fell deeply asleep without taking a shower. (intensely・thoroughly)
  - japanese: 友達との話：「何を長々話し込んでたの？」
    english: 'Chat between friends: ''What were you so intently talking about for so long?'' (deeply・thoroughly)'
  - japanese: エッセイ：「熱心にひとつの事に打ち込むことが必要だと思っている。」
    english: 'Essay: ''I think that devoting oneself deeply to one thing is important.'''
  - japanese: 小さな花の写真を撮るためにしゃがみ込む。
    english: To squat down deeply (with their face between their legs) in order to take a picture of a
      small flower.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/込む2
false_friends:
  - term: 切る
    meaning: To do something completely to the end, Utterly, Resolutely
    kind: synonym
  - term: 込む ①
    meaning: To go into, To put into
    kind: synonym
  - term: おわる
    meaning: To finish, To end
    kind: synonym
