grammar_point: たら
jlpt: N4
meaning: When, From when, Just when, If
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Theconjunction particleたらis used as a kind of 'halfway point' between 'if' and 'when' in Japanese.
  It expresses the completion of an (A) action, and then a (B) action that is considered to be the result
  of (A). It may be hypothetical, or it may be presenting a one-time result of something that happened
  in the past.To useたら, it will replace た in the simple past form of verbs,い-Adjectives,な-Adjectives,
  and nouns.CautionDespite appearing to be the past form of the word that it is attached to,たらitself does
  not actually carry the nuance of 'past'. Other words in the sentence will need to be examined to see
  whetherたらis truly highlighting something from the past, or simply the completion of something (which
  may or may not happen in the future).Fun FactAlthoughたらis regularly used to mean 'if', it almost always
  has a nuance of 'when'. This is due toたらspecifically highlighting the following situations:Completion:完了-
  Completion of (A).Materialization:成立- Coming to fruition of (A).These meanings are opposed to other
  'if' structures likeば, andなら, which focus far more strongly on the hypothetical 'if' meaning.
examples:
  - japanese: 今度遅れたら、許さないよ。
    english: When/if you are next late, I will not let it slide.
  - japanese: 寒かったら、エアコンつけてね。
    english: When/if you are cold, turn on the air conditioner.
  - japanese: 彼の事が好きだったら、彼に言った方がいい。
    english: When/if you like him, you should tell him.
  - japanese: 明日だったら、遊べるよ。
    english: When/if it is tomorrow, I can hang out.
  - japanese: 来週だったら、いけるよ。
    english: If it is next week, I can go. (Highlighting a future event)
  - japanese: 先週だったら行けたのに。
    english: If it was last week, I could have gone. (Highlighting a past event)
  - japanese: 買い物に行ったら、クッキーを買ってきて。
    english: When/if you go shopping, please get me some cookies.
  - japanese: あなたがその本を読まないなら、私が読みます。
    english: If you are not going to read that book, I will read it.
  - japanese: 勉強したら、テストは簡単になる。
    english: When you study, the test will become easy. (if・from when)
  - japanese: お茶の味が薄かったら、言ってください。
    english: Please let me know when the tea is weak. (if・just when)
  - japanese: もし食べに行きたかったら、行こう。
    english: If/when you want to go out to eat, let's go! (from when)
  - japanese: 週末だったら、時間ありますよ。
    english: If/when it is the weekend, I have time. (from when・just when)
  - japanese: 辛かったら、牛乳を飲んでください。
    english: If it is spicy, please drink some milk. (from when・just when)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たら
false_friends:
  - term: あとで
    meaning: After, Later
    kind: synonym
  - term: ば
    meaning: If… then, (Conditional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: てから
    meaning: Once...is done, Once...happens, After doing
    kind: synonym
  - term: と (quotation)
    meaning: If, When, Whenever, And, [Conditional]
    kind: synonym
  - term: なら
    meaning: Were it, If, If it's the case, As for (Conditional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: もし
    meaning: If (For emphasis)
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上で
    meaning: After, Upon
    kind: synonym
  - term: たらどう
    meaning: Why don't you...?, What if you did...?
    kind: synonym
