grammar_point: とは限らない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Not necessarily so, Is not always true, There is no guarantee that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: とは限らないis regularly used to convey the meaning of '(A) is not necessarily so', or 'there is no
  guarantee that (A)'. This expression utilizes thecase marking particleと in its use for highlightingresults,
  theadverbial particleは, and the negated form of the う - Verb限る 'to limit'.This structure may be used
  with verbs,い-Adjectives,な-Adjectives, or nouns. However,だwill be required afterな-Adjectivesand nouns.限らない
  literally means 'to not be bound', or 'to not be limited'. Therefore, despite と highlighting a result,
  that result is then being clarified as 'not the only possibility'.
examples:
  - japanese: 日本に2年間住んでいるからといって、日本語を話せるとは限らない。
    english: It is not limited to a person being able to speak Japanese just because they have lived in
      Japan for 2 years.
  - japanese: 日が出てても暖かいとは限らない。
    english: Just because the sun is out, doesn't necessarily mean that it is warm.
  - japanese: 田舎でも静かだとは限らない。
    english: A place being rural doesn't necessarily mean that it is quiet.
  - japanese: 社長だからといって乗っている車が高級車だとは限らない。
    english: It is not limited to him driving a luxury car, just because he is the CEO.
  - japanese: すべての人間が上手に歌えるとは限らない。
    english: It is not necessarily true that everybody can sing well.
  - japanese: 毎年の冬に必ず雪が降るとは限らない。
    english: It is not necessarily the case that it will snow every winter.
  - japanese: 彼女が「愛している」と言ってくれても、離婚しないとは限らない。
    english: Just because she says she loves you doesn't necessarily mean you won't get a divorce.
  - japanese: 裕福になっても、幸福になれるとは限らない。
    english: Even if you become rich, there is no guarantee that you will be happy.
  - japanese: 君の言うことがいつも正しいとは限らないでしょ。
    english: The things you say are not necessarily always right.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とは限らない
false_friends:
  - term: 限り
    meaning: As long as, While… is the case, Limited to
    kind: antonym
  - term: ことにはならない
    meaning: Just because… doesn't mean…
    kind: synonym
  - term: というものでもない
    meaning: There is no guarantee that…, Not necessarily
    kind: synonym
  - term: というわけではない
    meaning: It is not that, It doesn't mean that, It is not always the case
    kind: synonym
  - term: 必ずしも
    meaning: Not always, Not entirely, Not necessarily
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないことはない
    meaning: Is not impossible, It doesn't mean that it isn't
    kind: synonym
  - term: わけではない
    meaning: It doesn't mean that, It is not the case, It's not like
    kind: synonym
