grammar_point: ものと思っていた
jlpt: N1
meaning: Think that, Believe that, Expect that, Have confidence that, Absolutely
meaning_warning: sometimes ものだと思っていた is used. もんと思っていた is more casual variant
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 物と思うis made up of thenoun物'thing', thecase marking particleと, and the う-Verb思う 'to think'. Regular
  translations include 'to believe that (A)', or 'to have confidence that (A)'. In a broader sense, this
  grammar pattern is just making use of one of the meanings of物as being something abstract that the speaker
  can reliably determine has all of the qualities of something concrete.When思う appears in the past tense
  asものと思っていた, the most common translation is 'as I had believed was true of (A)', or 'I was under the
  impression that (A)'.As もの is a noun, this pattern may follow any word in itsattributive form.Asものと思っていたhighlights
  an impression of something that was true, contradictory statements will often appear in part (B) of
  the sentence following structures like が or けど.
examples:
  - japanese: え...まだ晩御飯食べてないの？てっきり帰りに食べてくるものと思っていたから、あなたの分は作ってないですよ。
    english: What… You haven't eaten dinner yet? I was totally under the impression that you were going
      to grab something on the way back home, so I did not make anything for you.
  - japanese: 私の母は猫が好きではないものと思っていたが、聞いてみたらただ猫アレルギーがあるそうだ。
    english: I was under the impression that my mother did not like cats, but after asking her, I found
      out that it's just that she is allergic to them.
  - japanese: ゲートボールは老人しかやらないものと思っていたが、最近は若者の間で流行っているらしい。
    english: I was under the impression that gateball was something only old people played, but it seems
      to be popular among young people these days.
  - japanese: 私は彼が拒否するものと思っていたが、予想とは逆に彼は賛成した。
    english: I was under the impression that he would disagree, but contrary to expectations he agreed.
  - japanese: 小説、勇者：「ドラゴンは伝説のものと思っていたが…｡」小さいドラゴン：「ガオー！」
    english: 'Novel: ''I was under the impression that the dragons were things of legends.''Small dragon:
      ''Rarrrr!'''
  - japanese: 子供の頃、森の中で迷った。てっきりこのまま死ぬものと思っていた（が救われた）
    english: When I was a child, I lost my way in the forest. I was under the impression that I would
      die like this. (But I was saved)
  - japanese: てっきり漢字を学ぶのは退屈なものと思っていた。
    english: I was under the impression that learning kanji would be boring. (But it is not)
  - japanese: A：「彼女が負けたなんて驚いたな。きっと勝つものと思っていたけど。」B：「わたしもそう思ってた。」
    english: 'A: ''Surprisingly, she lost. I was under the impression that she would win.''B: ''I thought
      so too.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ものと思っていた
false_friends:
  - term: ものと思う
    meaning: Think that, Believe that, Expect that, Have confidence that, Absolutely
    kind: synonym
