grammar_point: あげる
jlpt: N5
meaning: To give (away), To present, To provide
meaning_warning: For both あげる and くれる, に marks the recipient
details:
  Part of Speech: Independent Word
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 動詞
  単語の種類: 自立語
  使用域: 一般
writeup: あげる is a verb with many uses in Japanese. It's original meaning is 'to raise', but is also used
  as a polite speech way of saying 'to give'. In this way it can be thought of as similar to 'to offer
  up' in English. As polite speech has the same basic subject and object rules as standard speech, the
  giver will be marked with は or が , while the recipient will be marked with に . As usual, the 'object'
  that is being given will be marked with を .From these three examples, we can see that the order of 'giver',
  'recipient', and 'object' does not matter, so long as the correct particles are used.Cautionあげる should
  not be used when giving something to someone of a higher status, or when lowering oneself to elevate
  another. This is done through honorific language , or humble speech , and will use different verbs.Fun
  FactAlthough あげる is considered polite speech, it is the most natural way of saying 'to give'. やる is
  the 'casual' equivalent of あげる , but due to やる sounding a little bit rough, あげる became the standard.
examples:
  - japanese: このペンをお前にやるよ。
    english: I will give you this pen. (This pen is all yours)
  - japanese: このペンをお前にあげるよ。
    english: I will give you this pen.
  - japanese: その傘をあげます。
    english: I will give you that umbrella. (away)
  - japanese: 私は弟に飲み物をあげた。
    english: I gave my little brother a drink. (away)
  - japanese: 宝箱の鍵をあげます。
    english: I will give you a key to a treasure chest. (away)
  - japanese: 紙をあげるのでメモして。
    english: Since I will give you some paper, take some notes. (away)
  - japanese: 彼にスマホをあげましょう。
    english: Let's give him a smartphone! (away)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/あげる
false_friends:
  - term: もらう
    meaning: To receive, To get, To obtain
    kind: synonym
  - term: てあげる
    meaning: To do something for someone, As a favor for
    kind: synonym
  - term: くれる
    meaning: To give (me), To be given
    kind: synonym
