grammar_point: そうにない
jlpt: N2
meaning: Unlikely to, Showing no signs of
meaning_warning: そうもない = much more unlikely something will occur
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Compared toそうもない'very unlikely to (A)',そうにないis a grammar structure that has a very similar meaning,
  but is not quite as emphasized. In this expression, も will be replaced with に. Also, apart from indicating
  that something is very unlikely, it may also indicate that something is showing 'no signs of (A)'.そうにないwill
  connect to the ます-stem of the verb that it is indicating as being very unlikely.Occasionally,そうにもないmay
  also appear, and has the strongest nuance of being unlikely to happen amongstそうにない,そうもない, andそうにもない.
  Note that the only difference between these three structures is the addition, subtraction, or combination
  of the に and も particles.As this structure is just an extension of the use of theauxiliary verbそう (used
  primarily for speculation, or hearsay), it is simply indicating that (A) does not have any appearance
  of occuring.
examples:
  - japanese: ごめん、定時で上がれそうにないから先に食べてて。
    english: Sorry, it seems unlikely that I can leave work on time, so go ahead and eat without me.
  - japanese: 今日は行けそうにないのでキャンセルでお願いします。
    english: It is unlikely that I am going to be able to make it today, so please cancel my appointment.
  - japanese: 今日は雨が降りそうにもないから釣りに行こう！
    english: It is unlikely that it will rain today, so let's go fishing!
  - japanese: 列が進みそうにもないのでまた今度来ましょう。
    english: The queue is showing no signs of moving so let's come back another time.
  - japanese: ２回連続で宝くじには当たりそうにない。
    english: It is unlikely you will win the lottery two times in a row.
  - japanese: 二 週間、日本語能力試験の準備をしているが、合格できそうにない。でも、私は諦めない。
    english: I have been preparing for the JLPT for two weeks, but passing it is unlikely. However, I
      won't give up.
  - japanese: 日中関係は今の状況からいって、好転しそうにない。
    english: Judging from current Japan-China relations, a turn for the better is unlikely.
  - japanese: 明日雪は降りそうにない。
    english: It is unlikely that it will snow tomorrow.
  - japanese: 医者：「この事故の後、彼女は歩けそうにない。」
    english: 'Doctor: ''After this accident, it is unlikely for her to be able to walk again.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/そうにない
false_friends:
  - term: ことに
    meaning: Extremely, Especially, To my ...
    kind: antonym
  - term: そう
    meaning: Look like, Appear, Seem, Have a feeling that
    kind: antonym
  - term: そうもない
    meaning: Very unlikely to, Does not seem that, Does not appear that
    kind: synonym
  - term: っこない
    meaning: There is no chance of, There is no way of, Impossible
    kind: synonym
