grammar_point: ては
jlpt: N2
meaning: If, With, Since, Because
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When the particles て and は are combined, they form a regular composite structure that is used
  primarily to highlight repeating actions, or to make assessments or judgments about potential situations.
  In this grammar structure, we will be looking at the nuance that is used with potential situations.
  This may be interpreted simply as 'if (A), (B)', 'when (A), (B)', or 'because of (A), (B)'.At times
  when used as 'if',てはwill generally express some sort of negative expectation or comment.Depending on
  whatてはappears after,ではmay be used instead. This is the case when following nouns, な-Adjectives, or verbs
  that require で to be used instead of て when conjugating.As with many other structures that useてはorでは,
  it will often be shortened toじゃorちゃ.
examples:
  - japanese: そのように力を入れて回してはネジがだめになってしまいますよ。
    english: If you turn it with such force, you're going to ruin the screw.
  - japanese: そんなに長くては鞄に入らないので、半分に折ってください。
    english: It won't fit in my bag if it's that long, so please fold it in half.
  - japanese: 私は掃除が苦手なので、そんな几帳面では私と住むことができないだろう。
    english: I don't like cleaning, so if you are that well-organized, you probably won't be able to live
      with me. (You probably won't enjoy living with me)
  - japanese: そんな貧乏くさい格好ではあのレストランには入れないよ。
    english: If you have such a poor-looking outfit, they won't let you into that restaurant.
  - japanese: リーダーがあの人じゃ嫌です。どうしてもあの人じゃないといけないなら私を別のチームに入れてください。
    english: If that person is the leader, screw that. If there is really no other way than making that
      person the leader, then please put me on a different team.
  - japanese: ご飯を全部食べなくちゃ大きくなれないよ。
    english: If you don't eat all your food, you won't grow.
  - japanese: このような間違いを何回もしていては、夏休みの課題はやりきれない。
    english: If you continue to make mistakes like these, you won't be able to finish the summer assignment.
  - japanese: 寝る前にそんなコーヒーを飲んでは寝られない。
    english: If you drink coffee before going to bed, you won't be able to sleep a wink.
  - japanese: そんな服装ではあの店には入れてもらえないよ。
    english: With those clothes, you won't be able to enter that shop.
  - japanese: そのような給与では、あの工場で働くには無理がある。
    english: It is not worth working in that factory if that is what you will be paid.
  - japanese: そのような振る舞いでは、周囲はあなたを「馬鹿な人」と評価し、誰もあなたに対して真面目に相手をしないでしょう。
    english: With behavior like that, you will be labeled a fool by those around you and no one will treat
      you seriously.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ては
false_friends:
  - term: たって
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter how
    kind: synonym
  - term: ようでは・ようじゃ
    meaning: If, If it is true that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ていては
    meaning: If one keeps doing something, When, If something is...
    kind: synonym
