grammar_point: のみならず
jlpt: N2
meaning: Not only...but, Not just...but, What is more
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: のみならずis a structure consisting of のみ, the literary particle equivalent of だけ meaning 'just' or
  'only', the negative stem-form of the う-Verb なる 'to be', and theliterary auxiliary verbず, which connects
  with verbs in the same way, and carries the same meaning as ない. This expression indicates that something
  is 'not just (A), but also (B)', or 'not only (A), but (B) too'.のみ connects to words in the same way
  as だけ, so this pattern will be seen following Verbs, い-Adjectives, な-Adjectives, or nouns.Occasionally,のみならずmay
  function as a conjunction, appearing at the beginning of a new sentence. In these cases, the meaning
  is the same, but usually translates closer to 'what's more', 'furthermore', or 'moreover'.Caution -
  As this structure is formal, it will primarily be seen in literature, or heard in speeches.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は仕事に遅刻したのみならず、帰りの終電も逃してしまった。
    english: Today I was not only late for work, but also missed the last train home.
  - japanese: 日本の夏は暑いのみならず湿気が高いから熱中症になりやすい。
    english: Japanese summers are not only hot, but also humid, making it easy to suffer heat stroke.
  - japanese: あのパソコンは便利のみならず、安いので他のと比べてたくさん売れています。
    english: That computer is not only convenient but also inexpensive, so it sells a lot more compared
      to the others.
  - japanese: この漫画は子供のみならず大人の間でも人気があります。
    english: This manga is popular not only among children, but also among adults.
  - japanese: 田中さんは私の先輩だ。のみならず、命の恩人でもある。
    english: Tanaka-san is my senpai. Furthermore, he is the person that saved my life.
  - japanese: 高橋さんはサッカーの専門家だ。のみならず野球にも詳しい。
    english: Takahashi-san is an expert on soccer. Moreover, he is also very knowledgeable about baseball.
  - japanese: アニメや漫画は日本の国内のみならず国際的に絶大な人気を持つようになった。
    english: Anime and manga have gained enormous popularity not only in Japan, but all over the world.
  - japanese: 発光ダイオードは蛍光灯よりずっと安いのみならず環境への影響も細小である。
    english: Light emitting diodes are not only much cheaper than fluorescent lights, but also their impact
      on the environment is miniscule.
  - japanese: ボストン・ダイナミクスの新たなロボットは、速く走れるのみならず、ジャンプしたり、押されればバランスを取れたりする素晴らしい機械である。
    english: The new Boston Dynamics robot is a fantastic device that can not only run quickly, but is
      also able to do things like jump and regain balance if pushed.
  - japanese: この大統領候補は、豊富な知識があるのみならず経験の深い人でもある。
    english: This presidential nominee is not only a person with abundant knowledge, but also is a person
      with vast experience.
  - japanese: 喫煙は喫煙者のみならず周りにいる者、特に子供、お年寄りなどを肺がんにする可能性がある。
    english: Smoking has the potential to cause lung cancer not only for smokers, but also for those around
      them, especially children and the elderly.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/のみならず
false_friends:
  - term: ばかりでなく
    meaning: Not only…but also, As well as
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけでなく
    meaning: Not only… but also
    kind: synonym
  - term: に限らず
    meaning: Not just, Not only… but also
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけでなく(て)～も
    meaning: Not only ~ but ~ also, Not just ~ but ~ also
    kind: synonym
  - term: はもとより
    meaning: Not only... but also, Let alone, Of course,
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけ
    meaning: Only, Just
    kind: synonym
