grammar_point: ぬ
jlpt: N2
meaning: Classical negative, Classical verb [ない]
meaning_warning: Some set phrases cannot be rephrased to ない
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ぬis the attributive form of ず, aclassical auxiliary verbthat is used for negation like ない, and
  connects to verbs in the same way.Asぬis the attributive form of ず, it may be seen modifying nouns that
  directly follow it. However, this use is not common in modern times, and in many cases it will be used
  as part of set expressions that have not changed in the time since ない became the far more widely used
  structure for negation. Alternatively, it may just be used for artistic expression, or to make a character
  seem 'classical'.In the case that the verb being negated is いる, the old fashion おる will be modified
  toおらぬinstead.Alternatively, する will be negated asせぬ, and くる will be negated asこぬ. This is consistent
  with the standard conjugation patterns seen with the use of ず.
examples:
  - japanese: こんなに狭い道は通れぬ。
    english: I cannot pass a road this narrow.
  - japanese: なんだこの飯は！こんなまずそうなものは口に入れぬ！
    english: What is this food? I will not put this disgusting thing in my mouth!
  - japanese: 貴様みたいなものには、わしなど殺せぬ。
    english: I cannot be killed by someone like you.
  - japanese: 鈴木殿はここにはおらぬ。
    english: Suzuki-dono is not here.
  - japanese: あの方は人を傷つけるようなことはせぬ。
    english: That person would never do anything to hurt anyone.
  - japanese: 婆さんが川から帰ってこぬ。
    english: My wife won't come back from the river.
  - japanese: 「隅に置けぬ人」というのは「侮れない人」ということなのだ。
    english: '''A person who (can''t be placed) in a corner'' means ''a person who cannot be taken lightly''.'
  - japanese: こちらでは性による差別は許可されておらぬ。
    english: Sex discrimination is not permitted here.
  - japanese: 「愚か者、男には殺せぬのだ。」
    english: '''Fool, no man can kill me.'''
  - japanese: 言うまでもないことだが、知人に対して素知らぬふりをするのは失礼である。
    english: Needless to say, pretending not to know acquaintances is rude.
  - japanese: 上司は部下が向上できるように、至らぬ点を教えてあげるべきだ。
    english: A superior should tell his/her subordinates where they fall short so that they can improve.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ぬ
false_friends: []
