grammar_point: おそらく
jlpt: N2
meaning: Probably, Perhaps, (Most) likely, (I) fear that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: 恐らくis an adverb which originally stems from the conjugation of the yodan verb,恐る 'to fear'. In
  most cases,恐らくis simply used as a formal way to say 'probably', or 'perhaps', and is usually partnered
  with other structures of conjecture such as だろう, かもしれない, etc.As恐らくbehaves adverbially, it will most
  often appear at the beginning of sentences before a statement of conjecture is made.Although恐らくcan,
  and often does, carry the meaning of 'I fear that (A)', it isn't necessarily always used in relation
  to negative things. In the case of this particular grammar pattern, the main nuance that 'I fear that
  (A)' conveys is modesty on behalf of the speaker in that they fear their assumption may be right, given
  the available information.Fun-fact - yodan, or四段活用verbs are a type of classical-Japanese verb that have
  primarily been replaced by godan (う-Verbs) in modern day Japanese.
examples:
  - japanese: 妻は今夜会社の人たちと飲み会に行くと言っていたので、おそらく11時ごろぐらいまでは帰ってこないと思います。
    english: My wife said she was going to a drinking party tonight with some people from work, so she
      probably won't be home until around 11:00 or so.
  - japanese: あいつの不自然な行動からして、おそらくあいつが犯人だろう！
    english: Judging by that guy's unnatural behavior, he's probably the culprit!
  - japanese: おそらく明日は雨かもしれないので、明日予定していたピクニックは中止しましょう。
    english: Perhaps it may rain tomorrow, so let's cancel the picnic we had planned for tomorrow.
  - japanese: 恐らく彼はここにいないだろう。
    english: He most likely isn't here.
  - japanese: 恐らく明日雨が降る。
    english: Perhaps it will rain tomorrow. (I fear that...)
  - japanese: 彼だったら、恐らくこんなことできっこないでしょう。
    english: If it's him, he most likely won't be able to do it. (I fear that...)
  - japanese: 私の兄は恐らく１１月頃アメリカから帰ってくるでしょう。
    english: My older brother will probably return home from the US around November.
  - japanese: 代表者によりますと大統領は恐らく再選にねらうまい。
    english: According to a representative, the president will most likely not aim for re-election.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/おそらく
false_friends:
  - term: かもしれない
    meaning: Might, Maybe, Probably
    kind: synonym
  - term: もしかしたら
    meaning: Perhaps, Maybe, Possibly
    kind: synonym
