grammar_point: 更に
jlpt: N2
meaning: Even more or further, Again, More and more
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 更にis word that is often used adverbially in Japanese to convey the meaning of 'more and more',
  'even more than (A)', or 'again'. This use is an extension of the base meaning that the kanji更has in
  indicating that something is 'approaching change'. Because of this, the expression used following更にwill
  always be something that is either further along than the initial statement either in regard to time,
  quantity, or volume. Taking this into consideration, 'in addition to (A)' may also be used as a fairly
  standard translation.Asさらにis used adverbially, it often appears at the beginning of part (B) of a sentence,
  after the 'base' information has already been indicated.Fun-fact - The meaning of更as 'approaching change'
  merely indicates that something has already reached 'fullness', and anything more than that will cause
  a fundamental change in the state of (A). Due to this, さらに primarily indicates things where (A) is considered
  'complete' or 'enough' in and of itself, and what happens in (B) pushes that thing beyond a certain
  threshold. This may be either positive or negative depending on the sentence.
examples:
  - japanese: 電気代がさらに高くなった。
    english: The electricity bill has become even more expensive.
  - japanese: 刺身には刺身専用の醤油をかけると、さらに美味しくなります。
    english: Sashimi tastes even better when served with soy sauce specially designed for sashimi.
  - japanese: パソコンにウイルス対策ソフトを入れたら、パソコンが更に遅くなった。
    english: When I installed antivirus software on my computer, my computer became even slower.
  - japanese: 病院に行き始めてから彼は更に元気になった。
    english: Ever since he started going to the hospital, he has gotten even better.
  - japanese: 仕事をクビになって更に生活が苦しくなった。
    english: My life became even more difficult after being fired.
  - japanese: 税金がさらに高くなった。
    english: Taxes got higher again. (more and more)
  - japanese: 国家からの融資でさらにグラフェンの研究を進める。
    english: Financing from the state will push the graphene research further. (more and more)
  - japanese: 雪解けにつれて川や湖の水のかさがさらに増す一方だ。
    english: As the snow thaws, the quantity of water in lakes and rivers keeps on increasing further.
      (more and more)
  - japanese: スマホを見る時間がさらに増えた。依存症だな。
    english: The time I spend looking at my smartphone has increased more and more. I have become dependent
      on it, haven't I.
  - japanese: さらに加速がよくなったが、公道では役に立ちません。
    english: The acceleration has become even better, but that isn't helpful on public roads. (more and
      more)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/さらに
false_friends:
  - term: ますます
    meaning: Increasingly, More and more, Decreasingly, Less and less, Keep -ing
    kind: synonym
  - term: 再び
    meaning: Again, Once more, A second time
    kind: synonym
  - term: また
    meaning: Also, As well, Moreover, Again, Additionally
    kind: synonym
  - term: 上に
    meaning: As well, Besides, In addition to
    kind: synonym
  - term: その上
    meaning: Besides, In addition, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: しかも
    meaning: Moreover, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
