grammar_point: を禁じ得ない
jlpt: N1
meaning: Cannot help feeling, Cannot but, Cannot hold back
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: を禁じ得ないis a formal grammar pattern used to express that one ‘cannot help feeling (A)’, or ‘cannot
  hold back from (A)’. It is primarily used connected to words that express emotions, or things that are
  the result of emotions, such as tears or laughter. This is a combination of theadverbial particleを,
  theconjunctive formof the る-Verb禁じる ‘to prohibit’, and the得ない pattern which means ‘to not gain’, but
  is used in a similar way to できない.を禁じ得ないwill be seen following nouns, or occasionally verbs that have
  been nominalized with の.CautionThis grammar pattern is almost exclusively used to express one’s own,
  first-person opinion. Due to this, it may sound unnatural if used to express other’s feelings.
examples:
  - japanese: 初めて広島にある平和記念資料館に行ったとき、涙をこらえるのを禁じ得なかった。
    english: I could not hold back my tears when I went to the peace museum in Hiroshima for the first
      time.
  - japanese: 息子が生まれたが、いい父親になれるか不安を禁じ得ない。
    english: I have a son, but I can't stop worrying about whether I will be a good father.
  - japanese: 税金を国民のためではなく自分たちのためだけに使う政治家に怒りを禁じ得ない。
    english: I cannot help but be outraged at politicians who spend taxpayers' money only on themselves
      and not on the people.
  - japanese: 彼はあのシーンを見て涙を禁じ得ないようだ。
    english: It seems like he was not able to hold back his tears when he saw that scene. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: この生徒たちは流暢な日本語でニュースについて議論していたが、彼らは2年前から日本語を勉強し始めたと聞いて、驚きを禁じ得なかった。
    english: I could not help being surprised, hearing that these students who were discussing the news
      in fluent Japanese, had started studying it two years ago.
  - japanese: この不況の中、政治家が自分の給与を上げるとの報道を耳にし、怒りを禁じ得ません。
    english: I cannot help but feel anger upon hearing the news that the politicians raised their salaries
      during this time of recession.
  - japanese: 伝記：「戦争がこの地方にもたらした破壊を見て、涙を禁じ得なかった。」
    english: 'Biography: ''I could not hold back tears after seeing the destruction that the war brought
      upon this area.'''
  - japanese: 長い年月の後、互いに抱き合った姿に、喜びを禁じ得ない。
    english: I cannot help but feel joy at seeing those two embracing one another after all these years.
  - japanese: 全てを失った地震の被害者に同情の念を禁じ得ない。
    english: I cannot help feeling compassion for the victims of the earthquake, who lost everything.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/を禁じ得ない
false_friends: []
