grammar_point: に反して
jlpt: N2
meaning: Go against, Contrary to
meaning_warning: formal writing, formal speech
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: に反して, a combination of に and the て-form of反する 'to oppose', or 'to go against', is a construction
  in Japanese that is used to present counter opinions or arguments in relation to the previous statement.
  Common translations include 'contrary to (A), (B)', and 'going against (A), (B)'.に反してwill appear after
  nouns, before expressing some opposing or contrasting point. Alternatively, に反する may be used when directly
  modifying the following noun.Unlikeに対して,に反してwill often be used when a prediction does not match the
  actual reality of a situation.に反してis a fairly formal grammar pattern, so will be found mostly in literature,
  official documents, or speeches.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼らは会社のルールに反して交際をしているらしい。
    english: I heard that they are dating, which goes against the company rules.
  - japanese: 予想に反してクライアントの反応がいまいちだったので、最初からやり直さなきゃいけない。
    english: Contrary to our expectations, the client's response was not good, so we had to start over
      from the beginning.
  - japanese: 私は上司の指示に反することはできません。
    english: I cannot do anything that goes against my supervisor's instructions.
  - japanese: 予想に反して早く終える事ができた。
    english: Contrary to our expectations, we were able to finish early. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 予想に対して早く終える事ができた。
    english: Contrary to our expectations, we were able to finish early. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: 父母の意志に反して、故郷を離れて首都に引っ越したんだ。
    english: Contrary to the will of my parents, I left my hometown and moved to the capital.
  - japanese: うちのチームは予想に反して、 昨年優勝したチームに勝ったよ！
    english: Contrary to expectations, our team beat the team that won the race last year!
  - japanese: 魔法の存在は常識に反することだが、作家の想像力のおかげで、私たちは本や映画で楽しむことができる。
    english: The existence of magic goes against common sense, but thanks to the rich imagination of authors,
      we can dive into the world of magic through movies and books.
  - japanese: ある子どもは毎日勉強していても悪い成績をとる。それに反して他の子どもは全然勉強をしていなくても良い成績をとる。
    english: Contrary to some children receiving bad grades even if they study every day, others get good
      grades even if they do not study at all.
  - japanese: 他の古代帝国が崩壊したのに反し、アトランティスは現代まで存在している。
    english: Contrary to other ancient empires that have collapsed, Atlantis still exists.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に反して
false_friends:
  - term: 逆に
    meaning: On the contrary
    kind: synonym
  - term: むしろ
    meaning: Rather, Instead, Over
    kind: synonym
  - term: 却って
    meaning: All the more, On the contrary, Conversely
    kind: synonym
