grammar_point: ておく
jlpt: N4
meaning: To do something in advance
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When the conjunction particleてis followed by theう-Verb置く in Japanese, it regularly has the meaning
  of 'to do (A) in advance'.置く as a verb itself means 'to place something' (down), but also has the nuance
  'to leave something alone', or to 'drop something' (like a topic). In this way,ておくcan be thought of
  as meaning 'to do (A) and leave it (until later)'.When usingておく, the 'future event' that the (A) action
  is being done for may be something that is coming soon, or may be something that the speaker doesn't
  want to ever come. Due to this,ておくis also regularly used when the speaker is doing something specifically
  to prevent another thing from happening.Cautionておくis sometimes contracted toとく(orどくin verbs whereてwould
  usually be said asで). Although this is not excessively common in conversation, it is very common in
  drama, manga, and similar media.
examples:
  - japanese: 寝る前に食器を洗っておく。
    english: Before sleeping, I will wash the dishes in advance. (So that it does not need to be done
      later)
  - japanese: あなたの財布を鞄に入れておきます。
    english: I am going to put your wallet in your bag. (So that you won't forget it later)
  - japanese: 予約しておくね。
    english: I am going to make a reservation in advance. (So that the bookings don't fill up while we
      wait)
  - japanese: 毎日歯を磨いておくと、虫歯が防ぎます。
    english: If you brush your teeth everyday, you will be able to prevent cavities. (That may or may
      not come in the future)
  - japanese: 机の上に明日の旅行に必要なパスポートを置い とくね。
    english: I am going to leave the passport we need for the trip tomorrow on top of the table in advance.
      (So that I won't forget it later)
  - japanese: 水筒に水を汲んどくね。
    english: I am going to fill this thermos up with water in advance. (So that it is available when I
      am thirsty)
  - japanese: 明日のパーティーのためにジュースを買っておきました。
    english: I bought juice (in advance) for the party tomorrow.
  - japanese: 今夜明日のお弁当を作っておいてくれますか？
    english: Will you make tomorrow's bento (in advance) for me tonight?
  - japanese: ちょっと調べておきます。
    english: I will do a little research in advance.
  - japanese: 旅行に行く前にトイレに行っておく。
    english: Before going on a trip I will go to the bathroom in advance.
  - japanese: アメリカに帰る前に円をドルに変えておく。
    english: Before returning to America, I will change my yen into dollars in advance.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ておく
false_friends:
  - term: てある
    meaning: Something is done, Has been done, Remaining state
    kind: synonym
