grammar_point: だの
jlpt: N1
meaning: Things like, And so on, Or something, And whatnot
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Although originally a combination of theauxiliary verbだ, and the case-marking particle の,だのis
  considered to be a standaloneadverbial particlein modern Japanese that is used in the same way as structures
  like など and とか in presenting examples. Due to this, it will often be translated as 'and things like
  (A)', or '(A) and whatnot'.だのwill only be used when at least two examples are given, with each of those
  examples being followed byだの. Usually, these two things are either opposites of each other, or two things
  that share the same negative trait.だのmay appear after verbs, い-Adjectives, nouns, or quotations.CautionIn
  situations where the words thatだのis attached to are opposites, it will be exhibiting a large range to
  which the same rule applies. However when the words are similar, it is usually expressing things within
  that specific category as being undesirable. Because of this, regardless of what the words are, the
  overall statement itself aims to emphasize the speaker's feelings of frustration or boredom in relation
  to things that fall under that category, or that scope.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は仕事はやめるだの家事を手伝わないだの、本当に自分以外のことは何も考えていない。
    english: He does things such as quit work, and not help with chores and so on. He really does not
      think about anyone other than himself.
  - japanese: この建物は汚いだの危ないだのと近所の人に言われていたので解体されるらしい。
    english: The neighbor has been saying that this building is dirty, dangerous and what not so apparently
      it is going to get demolished.
  - japanese: 揚げ物だのコンビニ弁当だのばかり食べてると、また健康診断の時に先生に怒られるよ。
    english: If you only eat things like fried food, convenience store food and what not, you are going
      to get told off by your doctor again at the next check-up.
  - japanese: 妻は大嫌いだの嫌いだのと毎日言ってくるから悲しくなってきた。
    english: My wife tells me that she hates me and dislikes me and what not everyday so I am starting
      to feel sad.
  - japanese: 彼は「嫌」だの「大変」だの、何かをやる前から弱音を吐くから、一緒にいるとこっちまで仕事をしたくなくなる。
    english: He only says things like 'No' and 'impossible' even before trying anything, so it even makes
      me not want to work.
  - japanese: そんなに好きだの嫌いだのと言うんだったら明日から自分でご飯作りな。
    english: If you are going to say things like 'I like this', 'I don't like this', and things like that,
      why don't you start making your own food starting tomorrow? (Opposite ends of a spectrum)
  - japanese: あの新入社員はつらいだの面倒だのの理由で会社を入社して二週間でやめた。
    english: That newbie said things like 'this is too much', and 'this is a pain' and gave a reason similar
      to that and ended up quitting after 2 weeks of working with us. (Both negative)
  - japanese: ヒナは「臭い」だの「まずい」だのと文句ばかりを言っている。
    english: Hina only complains that 'it smells' or 'it's awful' and so on.
  - japanese: ラーメンやカレーが嫌いな人：「ラーメンだのカレーだのが好きなやつは味のわからんやつだよ。」
    english: 'A person that hates ramen and curry: ''People who like things like ramen, curry, and so
      on are people who don''t understand what taste is.'''
  - japanese: 友達１は友達２に文句を言う：「私たちは最近会話だの何だのばかりしているけど、実際に新製品を開発する人はいないよ。」
    english: 'Friend1 complains to friend2: ''Recently we are doing nothing but shooting the breeze (chatting)
      and whatnot, but there is no one that will actually develop a new product.'''
  - japanese: 彼はゲームに負けるといつも「回線が悪い」だの「敵がチート」だのと言い訳ばかり言う。
    english: Every time he loses a game, he just gives excuses things like 'there's a bad connection'
      or 'the other players are cheating' and whatnot.
  - japanese: 彼はいつも責任を持つだの何だの戯言ばかり言ってるけど、責任を取る時に、真っ先に逃げるのは彼だ。
    english: He always talks nonsense about 'being responsible' and so on, but when it comes time to take
      responsibility he is the first to run.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/だの
false_friends: []
