grammar_point: みたいに・みたいな
jlpt: N4
meaning: Like, Similar to, Resembling
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As learned in our previous lesson aboutみたい, it is aな-Adjective. This means that it can be used
  in conjunction with nouns, or with verbs. In each of these cases, it will carry the meaning of 'like
  (A)', or 'resembling (A)'. The difference betweenみたいdescribing a verb or a noun can be identified by
  whether it is followed by な (describes a noun), orに(describes a verb). Let's take a look at some examples.This
  difference is important to know, as (B), the thing thatみたいis describing, does not always come directly
  afterみたい.In the second example sentence, we can see that泳ぐ (the verb thatにis linked to), does not actually
  come until later in the sentence. This is quite a regular occurrence, especially in longer passages.CautionDespiteみたいmeaning
  'to resemble', and being based on (usually) visual stimulus, it should not be confused with見たい'to want
  to see'. This is a common mistake that learners make, asみたいitself does not have a kanji form.
examples:
  - japanese: プロみたいに泳ぎたい。
    english: I want to swim like a professional.
  - japanese: 先生みたいになりたい。
    english: I want to be like my teacher.
  - japanese: 先生みたいな人になりたい。
    english: I want to become someone like my teacher.
  - japanese: 関西みたいな所に住みたい。
    english: I want to live in a place like the Kansai region.
  - japanese: 彼はイルカみたいに泳ぎたいと言っている。
    english: He is saying that he wants to swim like a dolphin.
  - japanese: 彼はイルカみたいに、早く泳ぎたいと言っている。
    english: He is saying that he wants to swim fast like a dolphin.
  - japanese: 私はあの女の人みたいになりたい。
    english: I want to become like that woman.
  - japanese: それは城みたいな家です。
    english: That is a castle-like house.
  - japanese: 今日は冬みたいな天気ですよね。
    english: Today's weather is very winter-like isn't it.
  - japanese: 魚みたいに泳ぎたい。
    english: I want to swim like a fish.
  - japanese: サンダルみたいに履きやすい。
    english: They are easy to put on, just like sandals. (similar to)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/みたいに-みたいな
false_friends:
  - term: と同じで・と違って
    meaning: Like, Similar to, Unlike, Dissimilar to
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ①
    meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ②
    meaning: typical of, -ish・like, appropriate for, becoming of, befitting
    kind: synonym
  - term: みたい
    meaning: Like, Similar to, Resembling
    kind: synonym
  - term: そうに・そうな
    meaning: Seem, Look like, Sound
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように・ような
    meaning: As・like, Just like
    kind: synonym
