grammar_point: に違いない
jlpt: N3
meaning: There is no doubt that, I'm sure
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When thecase marking particleにis combined with the noun違い 'difference', and theい-Adjectiveない,
  an expression similar to 'there is no doubt that (A)', or 'I'm sure that (A)' is created.に違いないmay be
  used with any verbs,い-Adjectives,な-Adjectivesor nouns in their plain form.Fun FactAsにis marking the
  preceding word in this expression as an existing location (or state),違いない is stating that no 'variance'
  exists within that state. This means that the literal translation ofに違いないis close to 'there is no discrepancy
  in (A)'.CautionIt should be noted that違いない is a combination of a noun and anい-Adjective, and not the
  negative form of the う - Verb違う, which would be違わない.違いない translates as 'there is no difference', while違わない
  would translate as 'it is not different'.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼らは、先生がいなくなったらふざけるに違いない。
    english: There is no doubt that they will muck around once the teacher has gone.
  - japanese: あなたが美味しいというなら、美味しいに違いない。
    english: If you say that it is good, I have no doubt that it is.
  - japanese: タナカ君は全然料理を食べてない。この料理が嫌いに違いない。
    english: Takana-kun is not eating his food at all. There is no doubt that he does not like it.
  - japanese: 今のピンポンは近所の子供のいたずらに違いない。
    english: There's no doubt that the doorbell I just heard must have been a prank by the neighbor's
      kid.
  - japanese: あの人はカメラマンに囲まれている、有名人に違いない。
    english: That person is surrounded by cameramen. There is no discrepancy in that person being famous.
      (No reason to disbelieve)
  - japanese: 彼女は病気に違いない。
    english: There is no doubt that she is sick.
  - japanese: 現場で彼の髪の毛が見つかったので、彼は犯人に違いない。
    english: His hair was found at the scene. There is no doubt that he is the offender.
  - japanese: あんな転び方をして、痛いに違いない。
    english: Falling in that way, there is no doubt that it hurts.
  - japanese: 何回呼び鈴を押しても出てこない。きっと寝ているに違いない。
    english: No matter how many times I ring the bell, they won't come out. I am sure they are sleeping.
  - japanese: あの言い方だと、何か隠しているに違いない。
    english: From the way he speaks, there is no doubt that he is hiding something.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/に違いない
false_friends:
  - term: に相違ない
    meaning: Without a doubt, Certainly, Surely, Not mistaken
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～というのは事実だ
    meaning: It is a fact that ~, There is no doubt that
    kind: synonym
  - term: に決まっている
    meaning: Surely, Bound to, Certainly, Be decided
    kind: synonym
