grammar_point: せいで
jlpt: N3
meaning: Because of, Due to, Blame
meaning_warning: Can express blame or fault, で can be omitted at the end of a sentence
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Although written almost exclusively in hiragana, せい is anounthat may be better understood from
  its kanji,所為, meaning 'doings'. せい is used to convey negative results that occurred due to the behavior
  or actions of another person/thing. Because of this, common translations of せい are 'fault', 'due to',
  or 'because of'.As せい is a noun, it may be used after theattributive formof any other word. Thecase
  marking particleで will also regularly be seen after せい, especially when conveying the (B) result that
  occurred 'with' or 'by means of' those 'doings'.Fun FactThe 'doings' that所為represents is similar to
  the negative 'doings' that is used in English to place blame. This can be seen in phrases such as 'it
  was the weather's doings', or 'ah, so the missing cookies were your doings!'
examples:
  - japanese: 昨日夜遅くまで起きていたせいで寝坊した。
    english: Because I stayed up late last night, I overslept today.
  - japanese: 外が寒いせいで風邪を引いた。
    english: Because it is chilly outside, I caught a cold.
  - japanese: 犬の手術の事が心配なせいで今日は寝れなさそう。
    english: Due to me being worried about my dog's surgery, it doesn't seem like I am going to be able
      to sleep.
  - japanese: 大雪のせいで道が渋滞してる。
    english: Because of the heavy snow, the road is congested.
  - japanese: 遅刻したのは渋滞のせいだ！
    english: Me being late is the traffic's doing!
  - japanese: 台風のせいでまた予定が変わったよ。
    english: Due to the typhoon's doings, my plans have changed again.
  - japanese: トムは暑さのせいで気を失った。
    english: Tom passed out because of the heat.
  - japanese: トムがお皿を割ってしまったせいで、私は怪我をしてしまった。
    english: I got injured because Tom broke a plate.
  - japanese: 気分が悪くなったせいで、仕事を休んでしまった。
    english: Because I wasn't feeling well, I took the day off.
  - japanese: 雨のせいでせっかくの遠足が中止になってしまった。
    english: The long awaited trip was cancelled because of the rain.
  - japanese: 湿気のせいでカビがひどい。
    english: The mold is out of control because of the humidity.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/せいで
false_friends:
  - term: ために
    meaning: Due to, Because of, As a result of
    kind: synonym
  - term: おかげで
    meaning: Thanks to, Because of
    kind: synonym
  - term: につき
    meaning: Due to, On account of, Each or every
    kind: synonym
  - term: そのため(に)
    meaning: For that reason, Because of that, To that end
    kind: synonym
