grammar_point: という (called)
jlpt: N3
meaning: Called, Named, Known as, As much as
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: というis a combination of thecase marking particleと, and the う - Verb言う. It is a set expression
  that primarily uses only hiragana.というconnects two nouns, and means 'the (B) that is called (A)', or
  'the (B) known as (A)'.Fun Factという(and the verb言う itself) is often quite misunderstood, as the closest
  translation in English is 'to say'. In Japanese,言う actually refers to the information about something
  that cannot be discovered by simply 'looking at' it. For example, if you look at a man, you cannot know
  that his name is Bob, or that he works in an office, but you can know whether he is 'short', 'tall',
  etc. Due to this,というshould only be used to express information that requires intimate knowledge, and
  not simple observations.It is possible to see (A)という(B) in sentences where (A) is describing something
  that seems 'obvious'. However, in these cases, the speaker is usually implying that something about
  (A) is not exactly as it seems, or that their opinion/knowledge differs.This particular nuance is not
  limited to nouns, and may be seen with almost any word type.
examples:
  - japanese: ローラというモデルさんを知っていますか？
    english: Do you know the model called Rola?
  - japanese: 本山という駅で降りてください。
    english: Please get off at a station named Motoyama.
  - japanese: タナカタロウという少年を見つけたら、ここにお電話をください。
    english: If you find a child named Tanaka Tarou, please call us.
  - japanese: ここにボブという名前の男の人が来ませんでしたか。 (Natural)
    english: Did a man called Bob come here?
  - japanese: ここに小さいという男の人が来ませんでしたか。 (Unnatural)
    english: Did a man known as small come here?
  - japanese: あの人は強いというんだけど、ステロイドを使っているんじゃない？
    english: That person is known as strong, but don't you think he uses steroids? (He looks strong, but
      isn't)
  - japanese: ポケモンと言うゲームを知っている？
    english: Do you know the game called 'Pokemon?'
  - japanese: リンと言う焼き肉屋に行ったことはありますか。
    english: Have you ever gone to a yakiniku restaurant named 'Rin?'
  - japanese: 今は梅雨と言う時期です。
    english: We are now in the time of year called 'Tsuyu' (rainy season).
  - japanese: 秋と言う季節が大好きだ。
    english: I love the season (known as) 'Autumn.'
  - japanese: 佐藤浩一と言う人を知っていますか？
    english: Do you know a man named 'Sato Koichi'?
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/という-called
false_friends:
  - term: ということ
    meaning: ~ing, The ~ that ~ (Nominalization)
    kind: synonym
  - term: といわれている
    meaning: It is said that, Is known as
    kind: synonym
  - term: というのは
    meaning: ~ Known as ~ is, ~ Called ~ is, ~ Means ~, Because
    kind: synonym
  - term: いわゆる
    meaning: What is called, So-called, Generally known
    kind: synonym
