grammar_point: こそ
jlpt: N3
meaning: For sure, For certain, Even more so, Underlined or bolded text
meaning_warning: こそ replaces particles を and が.
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: こそis anadverbial particlein Japanese that primarily replaces eitherをor が. Its main role is to
  highlight the preceding noun (or noun phrase) as being the the most important piece of information in
  relation to the rest of the sentence. In English, this is an effect that is primarily achieved through
  things like bold text, underlining, or emphasizing a particular word in speech. If we were to make a
  direct comparison to an English statement, then things like 'precisely because it's (A)', or 'rather
  it is due to (A)', are quite similar toこそ's function.こそcan be used directly after any noun that would
  usually take theを, or が particles, so long as that particular piece of information needs to be emphasized.CautionThe
  reason thatこそis able to replace が, but not は, is due to the fact that が primarily highlights specific
  pieces of information, while は nominates general topics. This means that they have completely opposite
  functions. To make things easier, the three particles can be thought of in the following way:は- Weakly
  highlights specific information.が- Strongly highlights specific information.こそ- Very strongly highlights
  specific information.Fun Factこそis often used after names or pronouns, as a way to reply to thanks/apologies.
  In these situations, it expresses that the speaker feels equally (or more) obliged to say what was just
  said to them by someone else.
examples:
  - japanese: この曲こそ俺がずーっと探していた曲だ！やっとタイトルが分かった。
    english: This song is exactly the song I have been searching for! I finally figured out the title.
  - japanese: 今度こそ勝つぞ！
    english: I will win for sure next time!
  - japanese: いえいえ、私こそありがとうございます。
    english: No no no no, I am the one that should be thankful.
  - japanese: あなたこそできる。
    english: You can do it!
  - japanese: いえいえ、謝らないでください！私こそ悪いことをしてしまいました。
    english: No, no! Please do not apologize. It was (for sure) me that was in the wrong.
  - japanese: 一人でも手助けをすることができたら、それこそ最高の気持ちになる。
    english: Even if we can only help one person, that (for sure) is the best feeling.
  - japanese: 今度こそ達成してみせる！
    english: I will achieve (it) this time!
  - japanese: 辛い時こそ、大切なことを学べるチャンスだ。
    english: Difficult times are chances to learn something important.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/こそ
false_friends:
  - term: なら
    meaning: Were it, If, If it's the case, As for (Conditional)
    kind: synonym
  - term: より
    meaning: More than, Over
    kind: synonym
  - term: からこそ
    meaning: Emphasized because, Precisely because
    kind: synonym
  - term: なんか・なんて
    meaning: Such as, Things like, Emphasis
    kind: synonym
  - term: あまり
    meaning: So much...that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～てこそ
    meaning: Only if, Because, By, Unless, Until
    kind: synonym
