grammar_point: たら最後
jlpt: N1
meaning: Once, Now that, As soon as
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: たら最後andたが最後are grammar structures that both share the meaning of 'once (A), definitely (B)'.
  (B) will always be something negative that is thought to inevitably occur once the action of (A) happens.
  These expressions may be translated as 'once (A), (B)', 'now that (A), (B)', or 'as soon as (A), (B)'.Both
  たら and が are being used asconjunction particles. たら carries its usual meaning of 'if' or 'when', while
  が has the meaning of 'however', or 'but'. This means that たが最後means '(A), but it will end up as (B)',
  while たら最後means 'when (A), in will end up as (B)'. Although this nuance is slightly different, they
  are used completely interchangeably.Because最後is primarily seen before the comma in these types of sentences,
  it can be easy to think that it is connected to the が or たら. However, it is actually more correctly
  connected logically to the (B) half of the sentence, and states that the 'final state' will end up being
  that way.CautionOccasionally, the (B) phrase will be omitted from these sentences when the negative
  result is obvious.
examples:
  - japanese: 恋愛だけではなく、友達の間でも信頼を失ったが最後、取り戻すにはかなりの時間がかかる。
    english: Once you lose trust, not only in love, but also among friends, it takes a long time to regain
      it.
  - japanese: その会社と契約をしたが最後、解約するのがものすごくめんどくさい。
    english: Once you have signed a contract with that company, it is a huge hassle to cancel.
  - japanese: あの蛇に噛まれたら最後、体が麻痺するらしい。
    english: I heard that once you get bitten by that snake, your body becomes paralyzed.
  - japanese: 田中さんが話し始めたら最後、口が疲れるまでずっと話し続ける。
    english: Once Tanaka-san starts talking, he won't stop until his mouth gets tired.
  - japanese: あの人に政治についての意見を求めたら最後だ。
    english: It's the end once you ask him for his political opinions. (He won't stop talking after that)
  - japanese: 先生が注意しなくなったら最後だ。
    english: It's the end once your teacher stops giving you advice. (Because it means that they have
      given up on you)
  - japanese: 私の彼氏はゲームをいったんやり始めたら最後、どうしても深夜までやめられない。
    english: Once my boyfriend starts playing a game, he can't stop until late at night no matter what.
  - japanese: 会社、先輩は後輩に：「イラ次長に目を付けられたら最後、この会社では生きていけなくなるんだよ。もちろん比喩ではない。」
    english: 'At a company, senpai to kouhai: ''Once vice-director Ira has an eye on you, you won''t be
      able to continue at this company. I''m not joking, of course. '''
  - japanese: 社長、社員に：「会社は信頼性を一度失ったが最後、絶対に取り戻すことができないので、クライアントとの対話には気をつけてね。」
    english: 'Company president to employees: ''Once the company loses its reputation, it cannot be regained,
      so be careful when communicating with clients.'''
  - japanese: 小説のカスタマーレビュー：「綺麗な話です。読みはじめたら最後、涙がとまりません。」
    english: 'Customer review of a book: ''What a beautiful story. Once I started reading, I couldn''t
      stop crying.'''
  - japanese: 口を開いたら最後、自分の意志では止められなくて何時間も喋り続けてしまう。
    english: Once she opens her mouth, she will keep on talking for hours with no intention of stopping.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/たら最後
false_friends: []
