grammar_point: ものなら①
jlpt: N2
meaning: If, If one could, If something would be possible
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Often seen after the potential form of verbs is theconjunction particleものなら. This grammar pattern
  expresses that while (A) is not thought to be possible, if it were possible, (B). Common translations
  include 'if (A), (B)', if one could (A), (B)', and 'if (A) were possible, (B)'.Asものならis just a combination
  of もの and thehypothetical formof だ (なら),ものならsimply states that if (A) were a 'thing', then (B).Due toものならregularly
  expressing a desired outcome in the (B) part of sentences, this grammar structure will usually be accompanied
  by てみる or てみたい. Additionally, もし may also appear at the beginning of the sentence to further increase
  the nuance of 'if'.てみる is often used for criticism, suggesting that if someone thinks that (A) were
  possible, then perhaps they should try it. てみたい on the other hand is more commonly seen when (A) is
  wished for, and the speaker would like to do it if possible.While not a strict rule, the verb in both
  the (A) and (B) parts ofものならsentences is frequently the same. Especially when expressing a desire to
  do (A).
examples:
  - japanese: 俺のことを捕まえることができると思うものなら、捕まえてみろ！
    english: If you think that you can catch me, try and catch me!
  - japanese: すぐに直せるものなら直したいけど、今はちょっとお金がないから厳しいかな。
    english: If it can be fixed soon, I'd like to fix it, but it might be tough right now because I don't
      have money.
  - japanese: もしあなたが私より上手に書けるものなら自分で書いてみたらどうですか？
    english: If you can write it better than I can, why don't you write it yourself?
  - japanese: もし行けるものならケニヤに行ってみたいです。
    english: If it's possible, I would like to go to Kenya.
  - japanese: 私よりもっと上手くやれるものならやってみろ！
    english: If you can do this better than me, I'd like to see you try.
  - japanese: 時の流れに逆らえるものなら過去に行ってみたいが、時間旅行は実現不可能だから。
    english: If I could reverse the flow of time, I would like to travel to the past, but time travel
      is simply impossible.
  - japanese: 帰国できるものなら 帰国したいが、お金が十分にない。
    english: If I could return to my country, I would like to, but I do not have enough money.
  - japanese: この壁の塗り方はまずいって言うか？だったらペンキを買いに行ってもっと上手く塗れるものなら 塗ってみろ！
    english: Are you saying that the way I painted this wall is bad? If you can paint (it) better, go
      and buy some paint. I'd like to see you try!
  - japanese: もしできるものなら、二年前にビットコインを買ったんだが。
    english: If I could, I would have bought bitcoins two years ago.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ものなら①
false_friends:
  - term: できれば・できたら
    meaning: If possible
    kind: synonym
