grammar_point: 一応 ②
jlpt: N2
meaning: more or less, for the time being, tentatively・roughly
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When used as anadverb,一応can often carry the nuance of (A) not being perfect or ideal, but the
  minimum required in order to satisfy some requirement. This 'requirement' is frequently related to the
  time or amount of something. When used this way,一応may be interpreted as 'more or less, (A)', 'for the
  time being, (A)', or 'tentatively (A)'.This use of一応is in contrast to the other common use of一応, which
  can be translated as 'just in case', or 'just to be sure'. In these cases, the speaker is usually indicating
  that (A) is being done in order to avoid or prevent (B). However, in both of its uses, it simply indicates
  that (A) is the minimum amount which is fulfilling some requirement.
examples:
  - japanese: 一応私が店長ですが、どうかなされましたか。
    english: I'm more or less the manager. Did something happen?
  - japanese: 今日は一応ここまでにしておきましょう。
    english: For the time being, let's call it a day for today.
  - japanese: 周りの人たちが立ち始めたので、僕も一応立った。
    english: People around me started to stand up, so tentatively, I also stood up.
  - japanese: 今夜は寒くなるかも知れないから、一応ジャケットかなんか持ってきな。
    english: Why don't you take a jacket or something, just in case, since it might get cold tonight.
  - japanese: 一応言っておくけど私は踊るのが下手だからね。
    english: Just to be sure, I want to let you know that I am not a good dancer.
  - japanese: 転んだ友達１に話しかける友達２：「大丈夫？」友達１：「一応。」
    english: 'Friend2 talks to Friend1 who has fallen: ''Are you ok?''Friend1: ''More or less.'''
  - japanese: 就職の面接、面接官：「英語ができますか？田中さん。」田中さん：「私は日常的な英会話ぐらいなら一応できますが、ビジネスで英語を使うのは自信がありません。」
    english: 'Job interview, the interviewer: ''Can you speak English, Mr. Tanaka?''Mr. Tanaka: ''I am
      more or less able to do day-to-day conversations, but I don''t feel confident in using English in
      business.'''
  - japanese: 警察官：「こんにちは、警察から来ました。オーナーと話をしたいです。」エリアスさん：「一応私がオーナーのエリアスです。」
    english: 'Policeman: ''Hello, I have come from the police station. I would like to speak with the
      owner.''Elias: ''I am Elias, more or less the owner.'''
  - japanese: 医者、患者について：「ふう…一応、容態は安定化できました。」
    english: 'Doctor, about a patient: ''*sighing* We were able to stabilize her condition, for the time
      being.'''
  - japanese: 友達１：「田中といえば、、、ちょっと驚いた。勉強嫌いなのに、漢字が思ったより書けるのね。」友達２：「まぁ、日本人ならどんなに勉強嫌いでも漢字は書けるよね。一応は。」
    english: 'Friend1: ''Speaking of Tanaka, I was a bit surprised. Even though he hates studying, he
      can write kanji better than I thought!''Friend2: ''Well, no matter how much they hate studying,
      if they are Japanese they can write kanji. More or less.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/一応2
false_friends:
  - term: 一応 ①
    meaning: Just in case, Just to be sure
    kind: synonym
