grammar_point: べく
jlpt: N1
meaning: For the purpose of, In order to, To ensure
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: As theconjunctive formof theclassical auxiliary verbべし,べくwill be attached to thedictionary formof
  verbs in order to convey the purpose of an action. This will be translated as 'for the purpose of (A),
  (B)', 'in order to (A), (B)', or 'to ensure that (A), (B)'.べくitself will only attach to verbs that can
  be done intentionally, with some purpose in mind. The (B) part ofべくsentences will also indicate an intentional
  action that will be performed in order to reach the goal of (A).When combining する withべく, due toべくbeing
  aclassical auxiliary verb, it will attach to the classical stem of する, す. However, in modern Japanese
  it is fairly common to see bothすべくandするべく, with both forms being considered correct.べくitself is a very
  formal structure in modern Japanese, so will rarely be used in standard speech.Fun FactAlthough べし and
  all of its conjugations have slightly different translations based on the grammar points that they appear
  in, the underlying meaning can be stemmed from the originating kanji可し, meaning 'to be permissible'.
  The focus with this kanji and all forms of べし are just that the word it is attached to is being marked
  as a strong goal. This means that rather than 'in order to (A)',べくis closer to 'to attain (A)', in that
  it adds further emphasis.
examples:
  - japanese: 地域の高齢者の安全を守るべく、交番が設置されました。
    english: In order to ensure the safety of the elderly in the community, a police box has been set.
  - japanese: 息子は医者になるべく、ここ3年間ほぼ寝ずに毎日勉強をしている。
    english: In order to become a doctor, he has been studying these past 3 years without much sleep.
  - japanese: ここでの交通事故を防止すべく、ガードレールなどの設備を設置することになった。
    english: In order to prevent car accidents here, things such as guardrails are to be installed.
  - japanese: 次の大会で優勝するべく、彼らは毎日朝から夜まで練習をするようにしている。
    english: They try to practice every day from morning to night in order to win the next competition.
  - japanese: 彼は研修医となるべく、5年以上医科大学で修練しました。
    english: In order to become a medical intern, he studied at a medical college for five years.
  - japanese: コーポレートサイト：「クライアントのニーズに応える可く、我が社は世界で初めて、AIカスタマーサポートを生み出しました。」
    english: 'Corporate site: ''In order to meet our customers'' needs, our company has developed the
      world''s first AI customer support.'''
  - japanese: 大学ウェブサイト：「IZU科学技術大学では、予定通り秋期講座を開講す可く、鋭意準備を進めてまいりました。」
    english: 'University website: ''We, at the IZU university of science and technology, have been making
      preparations in order to launch lectures for the Fall Term as planned.'''
  - japanese: 社長の演説：「当社はCO2排出量の低減義務を果たす可く、工場にCO2専用フィルタの取り付けを決定いたしました。」
    english: 'Company president speech: ''Our company has decided to install specialized CO2 filters in
      our factories to ensure that we meet CO2 emission reduction obligations.'''
  - japanese: 伝記：「ホテル業界での有力者としての地位を固める可く、海外でもホテルを購入しようとしたが、拒否されてしまった。」
    english: 'Biography: ''In order to cement his influential position in the hotel world, he also attempted
      to buy hotels abroad, but he was refused.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/べく
false_friends: []
