grammar_point: 何しろ
jlpt: N2
meaning: No wonder, After all, In fact, Because, At any rate
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Although a combination of thesubstitute noun何and the imperative form of する, しろ,何しろis often considered
  to be a singular adverb that carries the meaning of 'no wonder', or 'after all'. A more literal translation
  would be something like 'whatever the case, (A)', and just expresses that in any circumstance, only
  one conclusion can accurately be drawn in regard to (A).何しろwill frequently appear at the beginning of
  a sentence, or at the start of the second clause.何しろwill regularly be seen partnered with statements
  including words like から or ので, in order to emphasize an explanation or reason as to why (A) is the way
  it is.
examples:
  - japanese: 何しろ彼はまだ始めたばかりなので大目に見てやってください。
    english: After all, he is new, so please cut him some slack.
  - japanese: 彼はできて当たり前だよ。何しろ彼はプロなんだから。
    english: It's no wonder he can do it. After all, he is a professional.
  - japanese: 何しろ今日は普段より暑かったからクタクタだよ。
    english: After all, it was hotter than usual today, so I'm exhausted.
  - japanese: 何しろこの商品は不便すぎるので、どれだけ値下げをしても売れないでしょう。
    english: After all, this product is too inconvenient and will not sell no matter how low the price
      goes.
  - japanese: 文法ちゃん：「どうしてそんなに悲しそうにしてるの？」 メガネくん：「悲しいのも当然だろ。何しろガールフレンドにフラれたんだから。」
    english: 'Bunpou-chan: ''Why the long face?'' Glasses-kun: ''Isn''t it obvious why I am sad? After
      all, my girlfriend dumped me.'''
  - japanese: A：「トムちゃんはやっと寝付いたね？」B：「何しろ、一日中遊んで疲れたからね。」
    english: 'A: ''Little Tommy finally fell asleep, right?'' B:'' No wonder, it''s because he got tired
      from playing all day.'''
  - japanese: 何しろ暑いからね。食欲も出ないよ。
    english: Because it is so hot. It's no wonder that I have lost my appetite.
  - japanese: 何しろ期限が迫っている。急いでくれないか。
    english: At any rate, the deadline is drawing near. Won't you hurry up?
  - japanese: 何しろ基礎ができていないから、彼に数学を教えるのは大変だ。
    english: At any rate, since his math foundation is not up to par, it is difficult to teach him math.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/何しろ
false_friends:
  - term: どうせ
    meaning: Anyhow, At any rate, In any case, I have no doubt that, Probably
    kind: synonym
  - term: 何といっても
    meaning: By any account, All the same, No doubt
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても～にしても
    meaning: Regardless of whether
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしても
    meaning: Even though, Even if, Even when, Also
    kind: synonym
  - term: にせよ・にしろ
    meaning: Even if, Even though, No matter, Whether… or
    kind: synonym
  - term: であれ
    meaning: Even if, Even, No matter
    kind: synonym
  - term: であれ〜であれ
    meaning: Whether or, Or, No matter which, In either case
    kind: synonym
  - term: にしろ～にしろ
    meaning: Whether… or
    kind: synonym
