grammar_point: Verb + だに
jlpt: N1
meaning: Just, Even just, Even merely
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: As mentioned in our だに + しない grammar point, だに is anadverbial particlethat shares a similar meaning
  to さえ and すら 'even', but is more commonly found in classical literature. It presents (A) as 'minimum'
  or 'light' examples, and therefore implies that anything greater than (A) would be more than can be
  handled, imagined, etc. In this use, it is often translated as 'just (A)', or 'merely (A)'.だに will appear
  directly following verbs in theirdictionary form.This is a formal structure, and will be seen far more
  often in literature than it will be spoken. Despite this, it is actually quite common in anime and manga
  when characters are being dramatic.As (A) presents a 'minimum', it will often be a word which expresses
  something that depicts the difference between reality and fantasy. For example, if (A) was想像するだに 'even
  in my imagination'. The 'minimum' is the imagination, for which the opposite end of the spectrum would
  be 'in reality'.
examples:
  - japanese: あんな地獄みたいな職場にまた明日も行かないとって考えるだに気が重くなる。
    english: Even just the thought of having to go back to that hellish workplace again tomorrow makes
      me feel depressed.
  - japanese: 彼のことを思い出すだに、悲しくなります。
    english: Just remembering about him makes me sad.
  - japanese: 部長からもらった仕事の量を見るだに、やる気が失せる。
    english: I lose all motivation by just looking at the amount of work my boss gave me.
  - japanese: 記事：「人間にとってはダニを食べるのは考えるだにおぞましい。」
    english: 'Article: ''For a human being, just thinking about eating ticks is repulsive.'''
  - japanese: 小説：「クトゥルフは見るだに正気を失ってしまうほどたいへん恐ろしい化物であるらしい。」
    english: 'Novel: ''It is said that Cthulhu is a monster so awfully scary that one goes mad just by
      seeing it.'''
  - japanese: 記事：「その映画のワンシーンを思い出すだに、胸が痛くなります。」
    english: 'Article: ''Just recalling that movie scene breaks my heart.'''
  - japanese: 小説：「ただ、その事故の話を聞くだに古傷が疼く。」
    english: 'Novel: ''Just hearing a conversation about that accident makes my old wound throb with pain.'''
  - japanese: 記事：「太陽の中心の温度は想像するだに恐ろしい。」
    english: 'Article: ''Just imagining the temperature at the center of the sun is terrifying.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/verb-だに
false_friends: []
