grammar_point: とは
jlpt: N1
meaning: That..., (Surprised) that..., (Never expected) that..., (Shocked) that...
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: とはis an emphatic structure that is regularly seen at the end of sentences, and will imply that
  the statement before it is shocking, appalling, or unexpected. In English, it translates very similarly
  as 'to think that (A)' in that it expresses a strong emotional response without expressly saying what
  that exact response is.とはis a combination of the case-marking particle と in itsquotationuse, and theadverbial
  particleは. In this way, it is just marking the whole statement of (A) as what is being highlighted as
  the topic, without actually stating anything else about it.とはmay sometimes be seen following など or similar
  structures, and in these cases will just imply that 'something like (A)' is what is shocking.CautionAlthough
  it is common forとはto come at the end of a sentence with the actual feeling word omitted, the speaker
  may expressly state their reaction afterwards.
examples:
  - japanese: まさかこんな場所でなつみちゃんに会うとは！元気にしてた？
    english: I would have never expected to see you at a place like this! How have you been?
  - japanese: こんな安く家が買えるとは思わなかったよ。
    english: I did not think that I would have been able to buy a house this cheap.
  - japanese: 君があんなに速く走れるとは...なんで今まで黙っていたんだい？
    english: I had no idea that you could run that fast… Why did you keep this from us?
  - japanese: こんな簡単なことで失敗するなどとは思っていなかったが、あいつに任せた俺が悪い。
    english: I was not expecting him to fail at something so simple, but it was my fault for leaving it
      to him.
  - japanese: まさか彼が私の知らないところでそんなひどいことを言っていたなどとは...
    english: I had no idea that he was saying such horrible things behind my back…
  - japanese: 高橋さんがもう結婚していたとは驚いた。
    english: I was surprised to hear that Mr. Takahashi was already married.
  - japanese: 病弱で内気だった田中さんがボクシングチャンピオンになるとは夢にも思わなかったよ！
    english: I would never have even dreamed that sickly and reserved Tanaka-san would become a boxing
      champion. (never expected)
  - japanese: まさか二ヶ月で10キロも痩せるとは！このダイエットは効果的だ！
    english: I (never expected) that I would lose 10kg in two months! This diet is super effective!
  - japanese: メアリーさんとたけしさんが去年もう一度新婚旅行に行ったとは驚いた。
    english: I was surprised that Mary-san and Takeshi-san went on another honeymoon last year.
  - japanese: こんなところでキアヌ・リーブスに出会ったとはねぇ！
    english: I (never expected) that I would come across Keanu Reeves in a place like this!
  - japanese: 「ついこの間彼と話したばかりなのに、今日が彼の葬式だとは信じられないよ。」
    english: '''It''s unbelievable that I spoke with him just recently, and yet today is his funeral.''
      (never expected)'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とは
false_friends: []
