grammar_point: を兼ねて
jlpt: N1
meaning: And also, Also (partly) to, Also (partly) for (the purpose of), At the same time, To double as,
  When … also, While … as well, And as
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: を兼ねてis a grammar pattern that makes use of the standard meaning of the る-Verb兼ねる 'to stretch
  across to', or 'to do concurrently'. Theadverbial particleを will mark a noun which will be considered
  the secondary event or state, while兼ねて will be followed by the primary event or state that will be done
  concurrently with (A). This is often translated as 'to (A) at the same time as (B)', 'to double as (A)',
  or 'to (A) also partly for the purpose of (B)'.を兼ねてoften highlights (B) as the primary goal, where (A)
  is something that acts to support it, makes sense to be done together, or just gives the speaker a good
  excuse to do (B). In order to remember that (A) is actually the secondary goal in this structure, using
  the literal translation of 'while extending across to (A), (B)' may help.In the case of multiple goals
  existing, the case-marking particle と will be used for listing of nouns.
examples:
  - japanese: おばあちゃんはボケ防止を兼ねて、毎日クロスワードパズルをしています。
    english: My grandma does crossword puzzles also partly to prevent dementia.
  - japanese: 日本語の勉強を兼ねて、英語の字幕なしで日本の映画をみています。
    english: I watch Japanese movies without subtitles also partly to learn Japanese.
  - japanese: ダイエットを兼ねて、毎朝ランニングしています。
    english: I run everyday also partly to lose weight.
  - japanese: 運動不足とストレス発散を兼ねて、キックボクシングジムに通っている。
    english: I go to a kickboxing gym also partly to relieve stress and to get exercise.
  - japanese: 体調管理と節約を兼ねて、寝る時はエアコンを使わないようにしている。
    english: I try not to use the air conditioner also partly for my health and to save money.
  - japanese: 日本語の勉強を兼ねて、日本のゲームをしています。
    english: I play Japanese games also (partly) to learn the language.
  - japanese: ダイエットを兼ねて、スポーツジムに通っています。
    english: I go to the gym also (partly) to lose weight.
  - japanese: 散歩を兼ねて隣町まで歩いて買い物に行きました。
    english: I went to the shop and (partly) for a stroll as well.
  - japanese: ちよちゃんの誕生日が近いので、お誕生日会を兼ねてパーティーを行いたい。
    english: Chiyo-chan's birthday is approaching, so I want to organize a party that will double as a
      birthday meet-up as well.
  - japanese: 小遣い稼ぎを兼ねて趣味で同人誌を描いている。
    english: I draw doujinshi as a hobby and also (partly) for extra money.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/を兼ねて
false_friends:
  - term: かねる
    meaning: Cannot, Be unable to, Hard to, Hesitant to
    kind: synonym
