grammar_point: ずくめ
jlpt: N1
meaning: Completely, Entirely, All in, Nothing but, A real streak of, Without exception, Jet
meaning_warning: づくめ is an older, pre-reform variant. ずくめ should be used instead., There is another suffix
  that uses づくし, meaning “all sorts/kinds of (A)”
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Originally stemming from thesuffixuse of尽く 'completely', or 'using solely', and the addition
  of め,ずくめcame to be preferentially written as hiragana, with ず replacing づ. This structure may be translated
  as 'completely (A)', 'all in (A)', or 'nothing but (A)'. Generally, it is attached directly to nouns,
  and expresses that (A) is to such an extent that nothing apart from (A) can be seen, felt, or noticed.In
  cases whereずくめwill directly modify the following noun, の will come betweenずくめand that noun.Althoughづくめmay
  occasionally be seen in older literature, it is mostly considered incorrect kana usage these days.Whileずくめmay
  be used in either positive or negative contexts, it is mainly seen in set expressions, so is best used
  with combinations that you have already heard or read.Fun Fact尽くし is another older structure that is
  used to express things that are separate, but are grouped together. This is usually translated as 'all
  sorts of (A)', or 'all kinds of (A)'. It is theconjunctive formof the う-Verb尽くす 'to be exhaustive' with
  a voiced pronunciation of the つ.
examples:
  - japanese: 今月も仕事ずくめになりそうだ。
    english: It seems like I'm going to be doing nothing but work again this month.
  - japanese: 最近は嫌なことずくめで全然楽しくない。
    english: I'm not having the best time right now, because nothing but bad things are happening.
  - japanese: 彼は黒ずくめの男たちに誘拐された。
    english: He was kidnapped by men covered in black.
  - japanese: 警察への電話：もしもし、家の前に黒ずくめの車が何台も止まっているんで今から言う住所まできてもらってもいいですか。
    english: 'Calling the cops: Hello, there are several jet black cars parked in front of my house, so
      could you please come to the address I''m about to tell you?'
  - japanese: 国づくしの偉い人が集まった。
    english: Great people from all sorts of countries gathered.
  - japanese: 新聞の見出し：「６月猛暑記録ずくめ」
    english: 'Newspaper headline: ''June - A Heatwave full of Temperature Records'''
  - japanese: 規制は必要であるが規則ずくめで窒息しそうな社会は強圧的ではないだろうか。
    english: Regulations are needed, but isn't a society that is about to suffocate with nothing but restrictions
      overbearing ?
  - japanese: ２０２０年は異例ずくめの大変な年でしたが何とか乗り切りました。
    english: 2020 was a very challenging year full of irregularities, but we somehow got through it.
  - japanese: ツイッターの投稿：「朝から晩まで、ごちそうずくめで結婚を祝う。」
    english: 'Twitter post: ''We are celebrating the marriage with nothing but delicacies from morning
      till night.'''
  - japanese: 黒ずくめのスーツに身を包んだ男はベンチに座り、逆さに持った新聞を読むふりをしていた。
    english: A man dressed in a completely black suit was sitting on a bench and pretending to read a
      newspaper that was upside down.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ずくめ
false_friends: []
