grammar_point: というのは
jlpt: N3
meaning: ~ Known as ~ is, ~ Called ~ is, ~ Means ~, Because
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: というのは is a phrase that combines the case marking particle と,  the う - Verb 言 う,  and the nominalizing
  particle combination のは. Together, they are usually translated as 'the ~ known as ~ is ~', or 'the ~
  called ~ is ~'. Sometimes, it can even simply be '~ means ~'. In essence, というのは is just a way to turn
  an entire phrase into a noun, before explaining that noun further. This explanation of (A) will either
  be to give a definition of it, or to give a reason for it.To use というのは , attach it to the end of a phrase
  that you would like to indicate as being something that will be explained further '(A)', and then follow
  it with your definition/reason, '(B)'.CautionUnlike というのは, which is mainly used to strongly present
  facts, or highlight points of discussion, replacement of は with the adverbial particle も can be used
  either as a rebuttal or as an extension of the original statement. This is when someone wants to show
  that (B) has equal weight when compared to (A). It may also be used to give the reason or cause for
  (A).Cautionというのは is sometimes used at the beginning of a new sentence, when the speaker wants to add
  extra information about what has already been said. In these situations, the translation is similar
  to 'what I mean to say is ~', or 'because of that, ~'.Cautionというのは is regularly abbreviated as とは, or
  って. This can be a little bit hard to identify in casual speech, but the '(B) explains (A)' concept will
  still almost always apply, so should be identified that way.
examples:
  - japanese: 今週末は遊べなくなっちゃった。というのも、義理の両親が来ることになったからだ。
    english: It looks like I won’t be able to hangout this weekend. The reason for this is because it
      has been decided for my in-laws to come.
  - japanese: 今年も大会で優勝することができた。というのも、コーチが頑張ってくれたからだ。
    english: We were able to win the competition again this year. The reason for this is because the coach
      worked so hard (for us).
  - japanese: 差別になることを言ってはいけません。というのは、私達はみんな同じ人間だからです。
    english: You shouldn't say anything that could be taken as discriminatory. What I mean to say is,
      we're all human.
  - japanese: あなたが言った事を否定するつもりで言っていません。というのは、私はそれが間違っていると思ったから言ったのです。
    english: I don't mean to disprove what you just said. What I mean is that, I said what I said because
      I personally thought that it was wrong.
  - japanese: おかずとはなんですか。
    english: What are side dishes?
  - japanese: あの人が70歳とは信じられない。
    english: I can't believe that person is 70. (70 years old, as I know it)
  - japanese: 夢って簡単に諦められないよね。
    english: Dreams are so hard to give up. (Dreams as we know them)
  - japanese: 法律ってほんとうに必要なのか。
    english: Are laws actually necessary? (Laws as we know them)
  - japanese: 自販機というのは、自動販売機のことだ。
    english: Jihanki (vending machine) means jidouhanbaiki (vending machine).(the thing called... is)
  - japanese: 外国語というのは、日本語以外の言語。
    english: Foreign language means a language other than Japanese.(the thing called... is)
  - japanese: 雪というのは、自然現象です。
    english: (The thing called) Snow is a natural phenomenon.
  - japanese: 人生というのは儚いものだな。
    english: (The thing known as) Life is such a fleeting thing, isn't it?
  - japanese: 頼みというのは結局、お金を貸してほしいということなの？
    english: So what you really mean by your request is that you want to borrow money?(the thing called...
      is)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/というのは
false_friends:
  - term: ことなの
    meaning: (A) is (Description of A), (A) means that (Description of A)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということは
    meaning: That means, That is to say
    kind: synonym
  - term: ということ
    meaning: ~ing, The ~ that ~ (Nominalization)
    kind: synonym
  - term: という (each)
    meaning: Called, Named, Known as, As much as
    kind: synonym
  - term: いわゆる
    meaning: What is called, So-called, Generally known
    kind: synonym
