grammar_point: なお①
jlpt: N2
meaning: Still, Even, Yet
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: When used at the beginning of a statement, the adverb尚'furthermore' will often carry the meaning
  of 'still', 'even', or 'yet'. This use is regularly seen after the previous statement ends in も, and
  will emphasize that 'even after (A)', or 'even though (A) is a fact, (B) is still true'. Especially
  when the information expressed in the (B) part of the sentence is surprising or shocking in some way.This
  structure will almost always appear without the kanji being used. Additionally, the (B) part of statements
  that include尚will also frequently include も, in order to specify that the new information is 'in addition
  to (A)'.今もなお has come to be used as a set phase, and may be heard in may different situations. Despite
  this,尚itself is quite a formal grammar structure.
examples:
  - japanese: 上司のパワハラを人事に報告してもなお、上司のパワハラが続いている。
    english: Even after reporting my boss to human resources for power harassment, his harassment is still
      continuing.
  - japanese: 彼は先生に注意されてもなお、指摘された事を直そうとしない。
    english: He still refuses to fix what was pointed out to him, even after being warned by his teacher.
  - japanese: 豊橋市では今もなおチンチン電車が走っている。
    english: Trams are still running in Toyohashi-city.
  - japanese: 浜崎先生は卒業後もなお、私たちの事をしっかりと覚えている。
    english: Mr. Hamasaki still remembers us even after graduation.
  - japanese: 蒸気機関車は今も尚、電気がない地域において使用されている。
    english: Steam locomotives are still used in areas where there is no electricity.
  - japanese: アメリア・イアハートの消失は今も尚謎である。
    english: The disappearance of Amelia Earhart is still a mystery.
  - japanese: ある旅館は718年以来今も尚一家族によって経営されている。これからもそのまま続いていくだろう。
    english: A certain ryokan is still managed by one family since 718. It seems it will continue like
      that in the future.
  - japanese: 討議を続けても尚問題の解決が見られなかった。
    english: Even after continuously discussing the problem, a solution has yet to present itself.
  - japanese: 退院しても尚病院に遊びに来る人が絶えないほど人気の病院があるらしい。
    english: Apparently there are hospitals that are so popular that even after being released, people
      still come to visit.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なお1
false_friends:
  - term: なお②
    meaning: In addition, Incidentally, Furthermore, Moreover
    kind: synonym
