grammar_point: それにしても
jlpt: N2
meaning: Nevertheless, Even so
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: それにしてもis an expression used in Japanese as an extension ofにしても'even though', or 'even if'. This
  grammar pattern may be translated as 'nevertheless', or 'even so', and merely points out that despite
  what was said previously, the speaker's primary opinion is the following statement.In most cases,それにしてもsimply
  highlights that while the speaker accepts or acknowledges the previous statement as true, that is not
  all there is to be considered.それにしてもwill primarily appear at the beginning of sentences, or directly
  after a comma.Due toそれにしてもbeing used when the speaker is already aware of or accepts the situation of
  (A), (B) will frequently highlight something that is above or beyond that expectation.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女は新人だから仕方がないが、それにしても仕事ができなさすぎる。
    english: She's new so we can't blame her, but even so, she is not good at her job at all.
  - japanese: 田中くんは遅れてくると言っていたが、それにしてもくるのが遅すぎる。
    english: Tanaka-kun said he will be late, but even so, it's taking him too long to come.
  - japanese: 漢字を勉強し始めてから1年になる。それにしても、まだ全然漢字が読めない。
    english: It has been a year since I started studying kanji. Nevertheless, I still can't read kanji
      at all.
  - japanese: 家に来たばかりのときなんかお手もできなかったのにね。それにしても、大きくなったね。
    english: When she first came to our house, he couldn't even give me his paw. Nevertheless, he got
      so big, don't you think?
  - japanese: 先輩、昨日はご馳走様でした！それにしても、あそこの料理は最高でしたね！
    english: Senpai, thank you for treating me yesterday! Nevertheless, that restaurant was awesome, wasn't
      it?!
  - japanese: 彼らが問題の解決に手を貸していますが、それにしてもそれは難問です。
    english: They are lending a hand to solve that problem. Even so, that is a tough one.
  - japanese: 上司から許可を得ました。それにしても、本部に連絡しないといけません。
    english: We received permission from the boss. Even so, we have to contact the headquarters.
  - japanese: 災害を防止するには、避難訓練が必要だ。それにしても、完全な予防は無理だろう。
    english: In order to prevent disasters, disaster drills are necessary. Nevertheless, complete prevention
      is probably impossible.
  - japanese: 彼女と付き合って一年になる。それにしても、女の人の気持ちはよく分からない。
    english: It will be one year since I started dating my girlfriend. Even so, I don't understand women's
      feelings very well.
  - japanese: 送別会の準備をしなければいけない。それにしても、この会館は安く借りられてありがたい。
    english: We have to prepare for the farewell party (ourselves). Nevertheless, I am thankful that we
      could rent this event hall for cheap.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/それにしても
false_friends:
  - term: ところが
    meaning: Even so, However, Even though, But
    kind: synonym
  - term: しかしながら
    meaning: However, Nevertheless, But
    kind: synonym
  - term: それなのに
    meaning: And yet, Despite this
    kind: synonym
  - term: それでも
    meaning: But still, And yet, Even so, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
