grammar_point: か何か
jlpt: N2
meaning: Or something, Or something like that
meaning_warning: Pronounced as なんか in casual situations
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: か何かis a structure in Japanese used for expressing uncertainty about a specific thing. Being a
  construction of か, thesubstitute noun何, and か, the common translations of 'or something', and 'or something
  like (A)' are quite close to the more literal meaning which is just '(A), or whatever it is'.か何かwill
  follow directly after the noun that it is describing as being something uncertain.か何かwill also often
  be used in questions, or when offering someone something. This is primarily when more than (A) is available
  as a choice, but the speaker isn't specifying a list just yet. In these situations, (A) just indicates
  a general category to which 'or something else' would be a part of.
examples:
  - japanese: すみません、お茶か何かありませんか？
    english: Excuse me, do you have tea or something?
  - japanese: お巡りさん！あそこにナイフか何かを持った怪しい人がいました。
    english: Officer! There was a suspicious person over there holding a knife or something.
  - japanese: 何でもいいんで、水か何かをください。
    english: Please give me water or something. Anything would be fine.
  - japanese: 紅茶か何か飲みませんか？
    english: Do you want to drink tea or something?
  - japanese: バーテンダーのひとみさん：「お飲み物はいかが？」顧客のにったさん：「ビールか何かがほしいな。」
    english: 'Hitomi, the bartender: ''How about a drink?''.Nitta, the customer: ''I''d like a beer or
      something''.'
  - japanese: 警察官：「泥棒はバールか何かを使って、窓を開けたと思います。」
    english: 'Policeman: ''I think that the thief opened the window using a crowbar or something.'''
  - japanese: A：「彼はどうしたの？３時間も遅れるなんて...」B：「バスで来るはずだから、交通渋滞か何かような気がする。」
    english: 'A: ''Where could he be? He''s like three hours late now…''B: ''He should be coming by bus,
      so I have a feeling that he is stuck in traffic or something.'''
  - japanese: A：「これ、手品じゃなくて、魔法だよ！」スケプティクさん：「そうは思わないね。本当に科学か何かでこのことは説明できるでしょう。」
    english: 'A: ''This is not a magic trick, it is MAGIC!''Mr. Skeptic: ''I don''t think so. You probably
      can explain it with science or something.'''
  - japanese: 奥さん：「コーヒーか何か飲みませんか？」お客さん：「結構です。」
    english: 'Wife: ''Would you like coffee or something to drink?''Guest: ''No, I''m fine.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/か何か
false_friends:
  - term: でも
    meaning: Or something,  Any... (with question words), No matter (who)
    kind: synonym
  - term: かどうか
    meaning: Whether or not, If...or not
    kind: synonym
