grammar_point: まるで…ようだ
jlpt: N3
meaning: It is entirely as if, It is just as though
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: まるで～ようだ is an expression in Japanese that combines theadverbまるで (sometimes written as丸で), and
  combines it with a description of (A) followed by theauxiliary verbよう (with or without eitherだorですafter
  it).丸で can be translated as 'entirely', or 'completely', while the whole expression may be understood
  as 'it seems entirely as though (A)'.まるでwill be used at the beginning of a sentence, before the description
  of what (A) seems to be like.Instead ofようだ, other expressions of conjecture may also be used, such asみたい.CautionThe
  'as if' or 'as though' nuance of まるで～ようだ comes primarily from eitherようだ, orみたいだ, withまるでsimply meaning
  'entirely', or 'completely' in almost all situations.
examples:
  - japanese: このゲームはものすごくリアルだ。まるで映画を見ているようだ。
    english: This game is very realistic. It is as if I am watching a movie.
  - japanese: あの人は私の母親と同じ年だけど運動神経がいい。まるで若いようだ。
    english: That person is the same age as my mother, but is very athletic. It is as though she is young.
  - japanese: あの人の仕事の仕方はまるで楽なみたいだ。
    english: How that person works looks as if it is super easy.
  - japanese: 彼は弟にそっくりだ。まるで兄弟みたいだ。
    english: He looks very similar to my younger brother. It is as if they are siblings.
  - japanese: お客さんと話すときにはちゃんと目を見て話せ！目を見ていないとまるでお客さんの話を聞いていないみたいじゃないか。
    english: Look at the customers eyes when you talk to them! If you don't make eye contact, it is as
      though you are not listening to what they are saying.
  - japanese: なんだそのフォームは？まるでなってないぞ！
    english: What is that form? That is completely unacceptable. (Natural, but different meaning)
  - japanese: あなたの顔はまるで幽霊を見たようだ。
    english: Your face totally looks as though you saw a ghost.
  - japanese: 全部の家事をしてくれたの？まるで天使のようだ！
    english: You did all the housework? You are just like an angel.
  - japanese: あの家には子供が４人いるので、まるで動物園のようだ。
    english: Since there are four kids living in that house, it is entirely as if it were a zoo.
  - japanese: あの二人は仲がいい。まるで兄弟のようだ。
    english: Those two really get along well. It is just as though they are siblings. (entirely)
  - japanese: 彼は、まるで山のように積まれた本を見て驚いた。
    english: He was surprised to see books stacked just as if they were a mountain. (entirely)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/まるで-ようだ
false_friends:
  - term: かのようだ
    meaning: As if, Just like
    kind: synonym
