grammar_point: として
jlpt: N3
meaning: As (i.e. in the role of), For
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When thecase marking particleと is used to highlight aresult, it regularly translates to 'as'
  in English. This nuance of 'as' simply assumes that (A) is a plain or unchanging fact from which something
  (usually an opinion or evaluation) is based. Combining this nuance of と with して (the conjugation form
  ofする),としてwill present (A) as the base point from which (B) can be determined.Despite being a combination
  of several individual parts,としてis often considered to be a副助詞(adverbial particle) by itself, meaning
  that it will most often be seen connected directly to nouns.Asとしてworks in the same way as a副助詞, it may
  be connected directly to a second noun to express that (B) is something functioning as (A).Fun FactThisresultuse
  of と regularly appears when one particular aspect of something is being highlighted (while other aspects
  still exist). This simply means that nothing apart from (A) is being considered when expressing (B).
examples:
  - japanese: ミキは友達としては最高だ。
    english: As a friend, Miki is awesome.
  - japanese: このゲーム機はDVDプレイヤーとしても使えます。
    english: You can use this game console as a DVD player.
  - japanese: 動物を傷つける奴は人間として失格だ。
    english: People who hurt animals are a failure as humans.
  - japanese: これは会社としての目標です。
    english: This is the goal as a company.
  - japanese: タナカさんは友達としてはいい人なんだけど、先輩としてはよくない。
    english: Tanaka-san is a nice person as a friend, but not as a senpai.
  - japanese: 私たちは先生としての彼を尊敬します。
    english: We look up to him as our teacher.
  - japanese: 文法は日本語の一番難しいところとして、学ぶ方法がなかなか見つからない。
    english: For (something that is considered to be) the most difficult aspect of Japanese, it is hard
      to find resources for grammar.
  - japanese: 私の嫁さんは母として、そして妻として、本当にいい人だ。
    english: As both a mother and as a wife, my wife is really a great person.
  - japanese: それは事実として受け止めるけど、感情的には納得できない。
    english: I will accept that as a fact, but it hardly satisfies me emotionally.
  - japanese: 挨拶は礼儀として必要です。
    english: As a courtesy, greetings are important.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/として
false_friends:
  - term: たる
    meaning: To be (in a position of), As a, For
    kind: synonym
