grammar_point: 一応 ①
jlpt: N2
meaning: Just in case, Just to be sure
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When used as anadverb,一応can often carry the nuance of (A) not being perfect, but the minimum
  required in order to prevent (B). This particular nuance of一応may be interpreted as 'just in case, (A)',
  or 'just to be sure (A)'.When一応is used this way, it frequently highlights that (B) happening is unlikely,
  but the precautionary measure of (A) might be a good idea to avoid it. This is in contrast to another
  common use of一応which can be translated as 'more or less', or 'for the time being'. However, in both
  of its uses, it simply indicates the minimum amount of (A) which is fulfilling some requirement.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日はずっと晴れって天気予報で言ってたけど曇ってきたから 一応傘を持って行ったほうがいいかも。
    english: They said it was going to be sunny all day today on the forecast, but it's starting to get
      cloudy so it might be better to bring an umbrella just in case.
  - japanese: これで大丈夫だと思うけど、 一応チェックしておいてくれない？
    english: I think this is fine, but just to be sure, can you please double check it for me?
  - japanese: 田中：「仕事慣れてきた？」鈴木：「はい、 一応...」
    english: 'Tanaka: ''Have you gotten used to work?'' Suzuki: ''Yes, more or less…'''
  - japanese: 一応はよくなってるみたいですけど、また来週病院まで来てください。
    english: For the time being, it seems like you're getting better, but please come to the hospital
      again next week.
  - japanese: 何かをテストする前の、従業員の間での話：「（そんなことには気にしないと思うが）一応伝えておきます。」
    english: 'Before testing something, a conversation between employees: ''(I don''t think they really
      care, but) Just in case, I will tell them in advance.'''
  - japanese: ルームメイトの間での話：「Facebookアカウントは一応持ってるけど、あまり使ってない。」
    english: 'Chat between roommates: ''I have a facebook account just in case, but I don''t use it much.'''
  - japanese: 友達の間での話：「彼は私服でいいと言っていたけど、一応スーツを着ていた。」
    english: 'Conversation between friends: ''He said that plain clothes are okay, but just in case, he
      wore a suit.'''
  - japanese: 教師が生徒に：「ハサミは必要じゃないと思うけど、一応用意してください。」
    english: 'Teacher, to students: ''I do not think that we will need scissors, but just in case, please
      prepare them.'''
  - japanese: 友達は助言する：「引越ししたら、一応、隣近所に挨拶しないとね。」
    english: 'A friend is giving advice: ''If you move, just in case, greet the neighbors.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/一応1
false_friends:
  - term: 一応 ②
    meaning: more or less, for the time being, tentatively・roughly
    kind: synonym
  - term: 万が一
    meaning: Just in case, In the worst-case scenario, In the unlikely event, By any chance
    kind: synonym
