grammar_point: 〜ようとしない
jlpt: N3
meaning: Not willing to, Not make an effort to, To not attempt or try to, Volitional + としない
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Like ～ようと思う'I think that I shall do (A)', ～ようとしない is a combination of a verb that has been grouped
  with theauxiliary verbう (orよう), followed by thecase marking particleと, and then another verb. In this
  case,する. ～ようとしないis often translated as 'shall not (A)', but with emphasis on a lack of effort, or willingness.CautionAs  ～ようとしない
  implies a lack of effort, this expression is usually quite negative, and mostly refers to other people,
  rather than the speaker themselves. If ～ようとしない were used to refer to the speaker, it will come across
  as 'I shall not do (A)', which would sound very abrupt/potentially rude. If speaking about yourself,ようと思わない
  may be used instead, meaning 'I don't think I shall do (A)', or 'I think I shan't do (A)'.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は怒っているから、誰の話も聞こうとしない。
    english: Since he is angry, he is not willing to listen to what anyone has to say.
  - japanese: 家になかなか帰ろうとしない。
    english: He isn't quite trying to go home. (It doesn't seem like he is going to leave anytime soon)
  - japanese: 自分から買って食べようと思わないけど、誰かに貰ったら食べるかも。
    english: I don't think I would eat it if I had to buy it myself, but I might if someone gave it to
      me.
  - japanese: 私は性格を変えようと思わない。
    english: I think I shan't change my personality.
  - japanese: 彼は自分が悪いことをしても、決して認めようとしない。
    english: Even if he does something bad, he will not make an effort to admit it.
  - japanese: 彼女は好きな男を諦めようとしない。
    english: She is not willing to give up on the man she likes.
  - japanese: 皆に嫌われているのに、性格を変えようとしないの？
    english: Even though you're disliked by everyone you won't try to change your personality?
  - japanese: こんなに天気がいいのに、うちの息子は外に出ようとしない。
    english: Although it's nice outside, my son is not willing to go outside.
  - japanese: これだけ説明しても信じようとしないならもういいよ。
    english: If you are not willing to believe me, even after I took the time to explain things to you,
      then so be it.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/-ようとしない
false_friends:
  - term: ようにする
    meaning: To try to, To make sure to, To endeavor to
    kind: antonym
  - term: Verb[volitional]とする
    meaning: Try to, Attempt to, To be about to
    kind: antonym
  - term: Verb[よう]
    meaning: Let's, I shall (Casual volitional)
    kind: synonym
