grammar_point: はおろか
jlpt: N1
meaning: Let alone, Much less, Needless to say, Not to mention, Not only but also
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: は疎かis an expression that works similarly to はもちろん 'of course (A), but (B)' in Japanese.疎か itself
  is a な-Adjective that means 'negligent', or 'alienation'. However, this use of疎か is not seen much in
  modern Japanese, and the word will mainly be used in set expressions where it doesn't behave exactly
  as a な-Adjective usually would. Despite this, the meaning of 'alienation', or 'completely removed from'
  is kept inはおろか, as it simply means 'completely putting aside (A), (B)'.Common translations include 'let
  alone (A), (B)', and 'it's needless to say that (A), when (B)'. (B) and (A) will usually be things that
  fall into the same category, where (B) is considered the far more obvious of the two. Due to this obviousness,
  (B) will often be immediately followed by theadverbial particleさえ. This shows that (B) is the noteworthy
  minimum extent.Alternatively, さえ may be exchanged with otheradverbial particlesthat fill a similar purpose
  such a も, すら, or まで. In most cases,は疎かsentences tend to have a fairly negative nuance.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は掃除はおろか、料理さえできない。
    english: He can't even cook, let alone clean.
  - japanese: 私はスーパーはおろか、コンビニさえもないど田舎に住んでいる。
    english: I live in a very rural area where there isn't a convenience store, let alone a supermarket.
  - japanese: 父はパソコンはおろか、スマホさえも使うことができない。
    english: My father can't use a smartphone, let alone a computer.
  - japanese: 「ルームメイトはオムライスは疎か、おにぎりさえ作れない。」
    english: '''My roommate cannot even make onigiri, let alone omurice.'''
  - japanese: 「最近、痔が痛み出したなぁ。座ってるのは疎か、歩くのも痛いぞ。」
    english: '''Recently my hemorrhoids have been so painful. It even hurts to walk, much less sit.'''
  - japanese: 小説：敵は疎か味方からも恐れられ、「バーサーカー」と言われるようになった。
    english: 'Novel: Feared by friends, much less enemies, she has come to be called ''berserker''.'
  - japanese: 彼はアクションアドベンチャーの有名な本をシリーズで執筆したが、実は祖国は疎か、故郷すら出たことがないという。
    english: It is said that although he wrote a famous action-adventure series, he has never left his
      hometown, let alone motherland.
  - japanese: 日本語の文字と中国語の文字の区別は疎か、ロシア語の文字との区別さえつかない人も少なくない。
    english: There are quite a few people who cannot tell the difference between Japanese characters and
      Russian characters, let alone Japanese Characters and Chinese characters.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/はおろか
false_friends: []
