grammar_point: ことはない
jlpt: N3
meaning: There is no need to, Never happens
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: ことはないis an expression that has two primary purposes in Japanese. To convey that there is 'no
  need for (A)', or that '(A) never happens'. In these cases, (A) is a verb that will appear directly
  before こと.ことはないis often used to reassure someone that something will not come to pass.In this expression,
  theadverbial particleは is working to present (A) as the extent (a regular role of adverbial particles),
  while the形容詞ない negates that extent. This negation is up to interpretation, with the literal meaning
  simply being 'There is no (A)'.CautionThis structure is very different to たことがない, which presents a single
  instance of something not having happened. As opposed to thecase marking particleが, は presents the verb/verb-phrase
  as a topic itself in non-past form, highlighting its non-existence. Due to this,ことはないcan imply that
  (A) is unthinkable, or even impossible.
examples:
  - japanese: そんなに慌てることはない。まだ時間がいっぱいあるからゆっくりやればいいよ。
    english: There is no need to rush that much. We still have a lot of time, so it is okay if you pace
      yourself.
  - japanese: 10年前に親と喧嘩をしてから、親と話すことはない。
    english: Ever since I fought with my parents 10 years ago, I have not talked to them.
  - japanese: そんなに心配した事が無い。
    english: There has never been a time where I worried that much.
  - japanese: そんなに心配することはないよ。
    english: There is no need to worry that much.
  - japanese: これ以上何も言う事はない。
    english: There is no need to say more.
  - japanese: 沖縄に住んだら、雪を見る事はない。
    english: If you live in Okinawa, you never see snow.
  - japanese: 落とした鍵を見つけたから、もう心配する事はない。
    english: Since we found the keys that were dropped, there is no need to worry anymore.
  - japanese: 恐れる事はない。思い切ってやってみるんだ！
    english: There is no need to be scared. Give it all of your might!
  - japanese: そんな急ぐ事はない。ぼちぼちやればいい。
    english: There is no need to hurry. You should take your time.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ことはない
false_friends:
  - term: ひつようがある
    meaning: It is necessary to
    kind: antonym
  - term: ことだ
    meaning: Should, Ought
    kind: antonym
  - term: ことがある
    meaning: Something is possible, Sometimes, Occasionally, There are times when
    kind: antonym
  - term: わけがない
    meaning: There is no way, There is no reason, It is impossible, Cannot be
    kind: synonym
  - term: はずがない
    meaning: Hardly possible, Cannot be, Highly unlikely, Improbable
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくてもいい
    meaning: Don't have to
    kind: synonym
  - term: すこしも～ない
    meaning: Not even a little, Not at all, Not in the least, Never
    kind: synonym
  - term: 決して〜ない
    meaning: Never, By no means
    kind: synonym
