grammar_point: しか～ない
jlpt: N4
meaning: There's only, Nothing but
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Theadverbial particleしかis often compared toだけ, in that it also expresses 'only'. However, unlikeだけ,しかcan
  only be used innegative statements. Due to this,しか～ないis regularly translated as 'there's only (A)',
  or 'there's nothing but (A)'.しか～ないmay be used to express numbers, or nouns. In this lesson we will examine
  nouns.Likeしか～ない, the construction used for expressing numbers, when used before a noun, this expression
  will mean that nothing apart from that one 'thing' exists. Any verb may be used afterしか, but it must
  be in its ない (or ありません) form.Cautionwhenしかないdirectly follows a verb, the translation is a little bit
  different, and means that 'nothing apart from (A) can be done'. This is a separate grammar point that
  we will study a bit later.
examples:
  - japanese: 犯人はまだ3人しか捕まっていない。
    english: Only 3 of the criminals have been caught so far.
  - japanese: この店は牛丼しか置いていない。
    english: This store only has gyudon.
  - japanese: 釣りに行って、一匹しか釣れないと悲しくなる。
    english: I get sad when I go fishing and only catch one fish.
  - japanese: 明日から雨が降るから、今日行くしかない。
    english: Since it will start raining tomorrow, we have no choice but to go today.
  - japanese: 遠いので、車で行くことしか出来ない。
    english: Because it is far away, you can only go by car.
  - japanese: 「はい」と「いいえ」しか言わない人とは話しにくい。
    english: It is difficult to talk to people who only respond with 'yes' and 'no'.
  - japanese: すみませんが、午後しか空いていないみたいです。
    english: I am sorry, but it looks like there is only space open in the afternoon.
  - japanese: 冷蔵庫に牛乳しか残っていない。
    english: There is nothing but milk in the fridge.
  - japanese: 手袋を一枚しか見つけられない。
    english: I can only find one glove.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/しか-ない
false_friends:
  - term: だけ
    meaning: Only, Just
    kind: synonym
  - term: を余儀なくされる
    meaning: To be forced to do something
    kind: synonym
  - term: Number + しか〜ない
    meaning: No more than, Not exceeding, As few as・as little as, Only
    kind: synonym
  - term: でしかない
    meaning: Merely, Nothing but, No more than
    kind: synonym
  - term: しかない
    meaning: Have no choice but, Only, Just
    kind: synonym
  - term: にほかならない
    meaning: Nothing but, None other than, Simply
    kind: synonym
  - term: ばかり
    meaning: Just, Only, Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: だらけ
    meaning: Completely covered in, Full of
    kind: synonym
  - term: だけしか
    meaning: To emphasize '~only', Nothing but
    kind: synonym
  - term: きり
    meaning: Only, Just, Since
    kind: synonym
  - term: をおいてほかに〜ない
    meaning: No...but, Nothing else but, None other than
    kind: synonym
