grammar_point: という点から考えると
jlpt: N2
meaning: From the standpoint of, From the perspective of, From the viewpoint of, Think in terms of, Viewed
  from the angle of
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: と言う点から考えるとis a set phrase which indicates that something is being discussed from the 'point of
  view of (A)'. This may be translated as 'from the viewpoint of (A)', 'speaking in terms of (A)', or
  'when viewed from the angle of (A)'. The noun点'point' can be thought of as directly indicating the aspect
  of (A) that is being focused on. Literally, the meaning is 'if considered from the aspect of (A), (B)'.This
  expression often follows either verbs or nouns, However, when following nouns, の may occasionally replace
  という, especially in cases where it is a simple noun, rather than an entire quotation that just happens
  to finish with a noun.Fun-fact - Although a combination of the quotation particle と and the う-Verb言う
  'to say', という is mostly written in hiragana and considered to be a set phrase which simply indicates
  that the contents of the phrase preceding it requires explaining in some way.
examples:
  - japanese: 日本のデジタル化が遅れているという点から考えると、デジタル人材の育成やデジタルインフラの整備に力を入れなければ日本のデジタル化はどんどん遅れていくだろう。
    english: If we think in terms of Japan's digitalization lagging behind, if Japan doesn't focus on
      improving their digital workforce and infrastructure, it's digitalization will fall further and
      further behind.
  - japanese: 子供の教育という点から考えると、楽しく勉強をさせる事が重要です。
    english: From the standpoint of educating children, it is important to make learning fun.
  - japanese: 健康の点から考えると休む時はちゃんと休まなければ身体を壊す可能性が高まります。
    english: From the standpoint of health, if you don't rest when you need to rest, the possibility of
      physical damage increases.
  - japanese: 健康の点から考えると砂糖の多い食べ物を食すればするほど肥満の可能性が高くなる。
    english: If we think in terms of health, the more sugary food you consume, the higher the chance of
      obesity.
  - japanese: ビジネスという点から考えると需要が高いということは高い利益の可能性があるということだ。
    english: If we think in terms of business, high demand means a high probability of profit.
  - japanese: 今やワードプロセッサはドキュメントのすべてのエラーを自動的に直すことができると言われている。そうした点から考えると正しいスペルや文法を学ぶことが必要はないと見える。しかし…
    english: It is said that nowadays, word processors can automatically fix all errors in documents.
      From such a perspective it seems that there is no need to learn proper spelling or grammar. However…
  - japanese: 日本の教師は１週間に働く時間の点から考えると部活動などにより世界で一番忙しい。
    english: If we think in terms of hours worked per week, Japanese teachers are the busiest in the world
      due to club activities and the like.
  - japanese: エンドユーザーの便利さという点から考えるとそれはむしろ不便である。
    english: If we think in terms of end user convenience, that might actually be inconvenient.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/という点から考えると
false_friends:
  - term: にしたら
    meaning: From the point of view of
    kind: synonym
