grammar_point: というより
jlpt: N3
meaning: '...is more of a... than a..., Rather than saying that...'
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: When combining thequotationuse of thecase marking particleと with the う - Verb言う 'to say', and
  thecase marking particleより 'comparing',というよりpresents a phrase that is being compared through further
  evaluation/reconsideration. This may be thought of as similar to 'rather than saying (A), (B)' in English.というよりmay
  be used after any type of word. However, due to phrase that comes before it 'determining' something
  that will then be compared, nouns andな-Adjectiveswill requireだ(despite being omitted in casual speech).CautionIt
  should be remembered that より (in all of its uses) will highlight something that is 'less'. This means
  that the (B) part ofというよりsentences will always describe something that is 'more', 'closer', 'more accurate',
  etc.
examples:
  - japanese: あの人は仕事をしているというより、仕事をさせられている感じがする。
    english: Rather than saying that he is working, it seems like he is being made to work.
  - japanese: 日本の天井が低いというより、あなたの身長が高いだけだと思う。
    english: Rather than Japanese ceilings being low, I think you are just tall.
  - japanese: 僕は暇だというより、なにをすればいいか分からないだけだ。
    english: Rather than having nothing to do, I just don't know what I should be doing.
  - japanese: ここは公園だというより、小さい広場みたいな物だ。
    english: Rather than calling this a park, it is something more like a small field.
  - japanese: マサミさんは綺麗というより、かわいい。
    english: Masami is more cute than beautiful.
  - japanese: その話がつまらないというより、興味がないだけ。
    english: It's not that the story is boring, it's just more that I have no interest in it.
  - japanese: 今日は暖かいと言うより暑い。
    english: It is hot rather than warm today.
  - japanese: あの人はかわいいと言うより綺麗。
    english: That person is beautiful rather than cute.
  - japanese: 毎日と言うより一週間に五回運動をするだろう。
    english: Rather than saying every day, I would say I exercise five times a week.
  - japanese: 彼は聡明と言うよりずる賢い人です。
    english: Rather than saying that he is wise, he is cunning.
  - japanese: 彼は技術者と言うより芸術家だ。
    english: He is more of an artist than an engineer.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/というより
false_friends:
  - term: より
    meaning: More than, Over
    kind: synonym
  - term: むしろ
    meaning: Rather, Instead, Over
    kind: synonym
