grammar_point: ものだ
jlpt: N3
meaning: Because, The reason is
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: もの (or物in its kanji form) is classified as a形式名詞(dummy noun) in Japanese. This just means a noun
  that is used in a similar way to 'thing' in English. もの regularly refers to things that do not have
  their own name, or are difficult to name due to their complexity. When もの is combined with theauxiliary
  verbだ, it implies that the previously mentioned (A) is something that 'is what it is'. This is often
  used in relation to customs, conventions, common sense, or to highlight results that would naturally
  be expected in any given situation.To use ものだ, attach it to the end of theattributive formof any word/word
  that ends a phrase that you would like to highlight as being an obvious piece of information.ものだas 'supposed
  to', or 'the way it is' can also be used to negate a phrase, and say that it is 'something that isn't
  expected', or 'shouldn't be the case'. To do this,だwill be replaced with ではない, or じゃない.Cautionもの may
  sometimes be abbreviated as もん. This is far more common in spoken language, and can make the statement
  sound a bit more casual overall.
examples:
  - japanese: 仕事は一生懸命するものだ。
    english: Work is something you should put all your effort into.
  - japanese: ユウキが自分からプランを立てるのは珍しいものだ。
    english: It is rare for Yuki to plan something out on his own.
  - japanese: こどもは元気なものだ。
    english: Kids should be energetic. (Man, kids are energetic)
  - japanese: 人生はそんなに簡単な物ではない。
    english: Life is not something that is easy.
  - japanese: 家族は捨てるものじゃない。
    english: Family is not something you should throw away.
  - japanese: 東大に入れたのか？大したもんだ。
    english: You were able to get into Tokyo University? That is impressive.
  - japanese: ゴミを道に捨てるもんじゃない！
    english: You should not throw garbage on the street!
  - japanese: ケーキは甘い物だ。
    english: Cake is supposed to be sweet.
  - japanese: 仕事は自分から進んでする物だ。
    english: Work is something you should do proactively. (supposed to)
  - japanese: 親は親切な物だ。
    english: Parents are supposed to be kind.
  - japanese: 食べ物はムダにする物じゃないよ！
    english: You shouldn't waste food! (not supposed to)
  - japanese: 生きるのは大変だ。人生とはそういう物だ。
    english: Life is tough. That is just what life is.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/ものだ
false_friends:
  - term: べきではない
    meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
    kind: antonym
  - term: ものですから・もので
    meaning: Because, My excuse is, My explanation is
    kind: synonym
  - term: はずだ
    meaning: Bound to (be), Expected to (be), Should be (able)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことだ
    meaning: Should, Ought
    kind: synonym
  - term: べき
    meaning: Must, Should , Ought to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものだから
    meaning: Because, The reason is
    kind: synonym
