grammar_point: Verb[て] + みせる
jlpt: N1
meaning: I will definitely, I will certainly, Just watch, Whatever it takes, I swear, for sure
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: て見せる, primarily written in hiragana, is an emphatic structure that indicates that the speaker
  is going to do (A) in a way that it is clear to the listener. This can be translated as 'I will definitely
  (A)', or 'I swear I will (A)', but the literal translation of 'I will show you that I'll do (A)' also
  makes the point clear.To useてみせる, simply alter the verb preceding it into its て-form.Due to みせる requiring
  a target for who the speaker is showing, this grammar pattern will only be used when there is either
  directly someone that will be shown (A), or when the speaker is talking about showing someone (A) that
  does not happen to be there at the moment either physically or temporally. It will not be used when
  simply strongly stating that you will do (A), unless who sees that (A) is important. In a sentence like
  this, where the person being shown is not obvious, it will come across as 'I'll show everyone'.Asて見せるliterally
  just means to 'show (A)', it will often be used without any special emphasis. Whether it is being used
  emphatically or not will usually be obvious from the overall context of the sentence.
examples:
  - japanese: お前のために、次の試合では勝ってみせる！
    english: I will definitely win the next competition for you!
  - japanese: 来週のテストで合格してみせる！
    english: I will definitely pass the test next week!
  - japanese: 足が痛いけど、完走してみせる！
    english: My legs hurt, but I am definitely going to finish the race!
  - japanese: 「今年こそ、必ず運転免許を取って見せるよ。」
    english: '''I will definitely get a drivers license this year!'''
  - japanese: アニメ：友達１「先輩に私の気持ちを絶対気づかせて見せるわ！」頼れる友達２「がんばれ！」
    english: 'An anime, Friend 1: ''I will definitely make senpai realize my feelings!''Supportive friend
      2: ''Go for it!'''
  - japanese: 「何があっても、必ずファンの期待に応えて見せます！」
    english: '''No matter what happens, I will definitely live up to my fans'' expectations!'''
  - japanese: 負けた後、相手を挑発する：「次こそ、必ず勝って見せるぞ！あなたには負けない！」相手「よし、かかってこい！」
    english: 'After losing, challenging the opponent: ''I will definitely win next time! I won''t lose!''Opponent:
      ''OK! Bring it on!'''
  - japanese: 小説：「必ずこの手で魔王を倒して見せるという勇者エミリアの言葉に、わたしたちは賭けることにした。」
    english: 'Novel: ''We decided to bet on Emilia the hero''s words, that she would definitely defeat
      the demon king with her very own hands.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/verb-て-みせる
false_friends: []
