grammar_point: あまり
jlpt: N3
meaning: So much...that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: As anoun, あまり means 'excess', and refers to an amount of something that is in surplus. This noun
  is quite often used after many different types of words, to indicate that something happened/exists
  to an excessive degree (which then resulted in something negative occurring). By itself,余り is not negative.
  However, this grammar point can be thought of as a set phrase that is generally used in negative situations.To
  use あまり, you will need to attach it to the end of the following structures. A verb, anい-Adjective(that
  has been turned into a noun through the use of さ or み) followed by の, aな-Adjectivefollowed by な, or
  a noun followed by の. Then, after あまり, a (B) phrase will highlight what the negative result was.CautionThe
  tense of the overall sentence will be dependent on the first clause. Therefore, it is common to see
  the verb beforeあまりbeing used in several different tenses.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼は仕事を終わらせることに集中するあまり、終電を逃しました。
    english: He was so concentrated on finishing his work that he missed the last train.
  - japanese: トムは暑さのあまり、気を失った。
    english: It was so hot that Tom fainted.
  - japanese: 彼女は彼と別れて、悲しみのあまりボーっとしている。
    english: She broke up with her boyfriend and is so sad that she is spacing out a lot.
  - japanese: 彼は音楽が好きなあまり、仕事を辞めてバンドを作った。
    english: He likes music so much that he quit his job and started a band.
  - japanese: ヤスエは初めてのライブで、緊張のあまり上手く歌えなかった。
    english: Yasue had her first concert, and she was so nervous that she couldn't sing well.
  - japanese: 先輩は飲み会でお酒を沢山飲んだあまり、一人で帰ることができなかった。
    english: Senpai drank so much at the party that he couldn't get home by himself.
  - japanese: 最近彼女と別れた友達を心配するあまり、友達の話しを聞きに行った。
    english: I was so worried about my friend, who has broken up with his girlfriend recently, that I
      went to his place to listen to him vent.
  - japanese: 社長は社員全員に恐れられているあまり、誰も社長の提案を否定しない。
    english: The CEO of our company is so feared by all of the workers that no one will criticize his
      decisions.
  - japanese: 旅行への楽しみさの余り、今日は寝れなさそう。
    english: I am so excited for my trip that it seems like I won't be able to sleep tonight.
  - japanese: トムは驚きの余り、何も言えなかった。
    english: Tom was so surprised that he was speechless.
  - japanese: 美味しさの余り、食べるのは飽きない。
    english: It is so delicious that I can never get tired of eating it.
  - japanese: ある日、王様は食べすぎた余り、立ち上がることができなかった。
    english: One day, the king ate so much that he wasn't able to stand up.
  - japanese: 悲しさの余り、言葉を失った。
    english: I was so distraught that I was at a loss for words.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/あまり
false_friends:
  - term: すぎる
    meaning: Too much, Very
    kind: synonym
  - term: あまり～ない
    meaning: Not very, Not much, Not really, Hardly
    kind: synonym
  - term: なかなか
    meaning: Very, Quite, Considerably
    kind: synonym
  - term: あまりに
    meaning: So much...that, (Way) too...
    kind: synonym
  - term: こそ
    meaning: For sure, For certain, Even more so, Underlined or bolded text
    kind: synonym
  - term: からこそ
    meaning: Emphasized because, Precisely because
    kind: synonym
  - term: Adj限りだ
    meaning: Extremely, Really, Very, As ... as one can be
    kind: synonym
