grammar_point: 確かに
jlpt: N2
meaning: Surely, Certainly
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: 確かにis the adverbial use of the な-Adjective確か, meaning 'to be certain', or 'to be assured'. It
  may be used in the same way as 'certainly' or 'surely' in English, especially when the speaker wants
  to highlight (A) is definitely the case.Caution -確かにas 'certainly' is only used for verifying information,
  and does not carry the nuance of giving permission, as it does in English.Caution - When the に is removed,確か
  is often used in a similar way to 'if I remember correctly', 'if I'm not mistaken', or 'now that you
  mention it'.
examples:
  - japanese: 確かに彼はイケメンですが、マナーが悪いです。
    english: He is certainly handsome, but he has bad manners.
  - japanese: 確かにさっきのは言い過ぎだった。ごめん。
    english: What I said earlier was certainly out of line. I'm sorry.
  - japanese: 確かに結構難しいね。ちょっと甘く見てたわ。
    english: This is certainly difficult. I underestimated it. (Natural Japanese)
  - japanese: 確かに！宿題が終わってるならゲームをしてもいいよ。
    english: Certainly! You may play video games if you finish your homework. (Unnatural Japanese)
  - japanese: あの人は確かたくやくんのおじさんだったような気がする。
    english: If I recall correctly, I feel like that person is Takuya-kun's father.
  - japanese: そう言えば、前いくら借りたっけ？確か３千円だったよね？
    english: By the way, how much money did I borrow the other day? If I remember correctly, it was three-thousand
      yen, correct?
  - japanese: 確かに彼は信頼できます。
    english: You can certainly rely on him.
  - japanese: 確かにその服はあなたに似合う。
    english: Those clothes certainly look good on you.
  - japanese: 学校の規則上、確かに生徒は先生に従うべきだ。
    english: From the standpoint of the school's rules, students should certainly obey their teacher.
  - japanese: 彼のうちは音楽一家らしいが、確かに楽器がうまい。
    english: I heard he is from a musical household, but he is certainly skilled with an instrument.
  - japanese: 移籍金はかなりの額だったが、確かに活躍している。
    english: The fee for transferring (to another team) was a considerable amount, but (he) is certainly
      actively participating.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/確かに
false_friends: []
