grammar_point: には
jlpt: N2
meaning: In order to, In regard to, For
meaning_warning: は can be attached to に in all of its uses to express topic/contrast. When には follows
  a noun denoting person it means "for (someone as opposed to others)"
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: にはis a common particle combination in Japanese that is used to express contrast in regard to
  the topic. As a function of the particles that combine to makeには, に highlights that something is 'for
  (A)', while は emphasizes that a generalization or contrast is being made about (A).Common translations
  forにはinclude 'in order to', 'in regard to', or 'for'. This structure will appear following either verbs
  in their dictionary form, or nouns.Fun-fact - Despite having several different translations,にはcan almost
  always be thought of as simply meaning 'for', as に highlights that (A) is the 'target', while は shows
  that whatever  happens in (B) is specific to (A), regardless of whatever might be true for another topic.
examples:
  - japanese: このホームセンターは会員制なので、買い物をするには会員登録が必要です。
    english: Since this home improvement store is only open to members, you will need to sign up in order
      to shop here.
  - japanese: 海外に行くにはパスポートが必要です。
    english: You need a passport in order to travel abroad.
  - japanese: この本は子供には難しすぎるだろう。
    english: This book is probably too difficult for children.
  - japanese: 通勤には車を使わないでください。
    english: Please do not use your car for commuting.
  - japanese: 「妹がブランコで遊ぶには、まだ小さすぎます。」と男の子は言いました。
    english: '''As for playing on the swings, my sister is still too small'', said the boy. (In order
      to)'
  - japanese: 日本で独り暮らしをするには、日本語を話せるようになるべきだ。
    english: In order to live by yourself in Japan, you should be able to speak Japanese.
  - japanese: 出産には、我慢強さが必要です。
    english: In order to give birth, endurance is necessary.
  - japanese: 短所を改善するには、まずその短所を認めることが必要です。
    english: In order to fix your weaknesses, it is necessary to first acknowledge those weaknesses.
  - japanese: 夢を実現するには時間がかかる。
    english: It takes time in order to make one's dream happen.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/には
false_friends:
  - term: としては
    meaning: As a, For a, As for
    kind: synonym
  - term: に取って
    meaning: To, For, Concerning
    kind: synonym
  - term: ため(に)
    meaning: For, For the sake of, In order to
    kind: synonym
  - term: のに (in order to)
    meaning: In order to
    kind: synonym
