grammar_point: にする
jlpt: N5
meaning: To decide on, To choose, To make something into, To view something as
meaning_warning: Sometimes written as とする, which focuses on the result, rather than the process of 'making'
details:
  Part of Speech: Verb
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 表現
  単語の種類: 動詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: にする is a structure that combines the に particle (a location/target), with the verb する . It means
  to 'make/decide' something in a certain way. The nuance with にする is that the speaker has direct control
  over the outcome. This is where the strong feeling of 'choice' comes from. The noun that comes before
  にする is the thing that is being decided.In this example, although the common translation is 'to decide',
  it is actually much closer to the slang expression 'to do (A)' in English. This means that the literal
  translation is actually 'I'll do a beer', or 'I'll make it a beer'.Sometimes the particle と is used
  instead of に. Although this has the same meaning, it changes the nuance slightly. When と is used, it
  takes away the feeling of being a direct decision. とする tends to be used in more formal situations, but
  this is only because と is less 'definite', so results in the phrase sounding less pushy.If you were
  going to compare these two to an English equivalent, it would be similar to the difference between the
  following sentences.に - I'll buy a burger. (A burger is the direct target of 'buy')と - I'll go with
  a burger. (You aren't 'going' anywhere, it just sounds softer)This grammar point may be used for more
  abstract nouns, and does not specifically need to be 'items'.
examples:
  - japanese: 何にする？
    english: What will you decide on?
  - japanese: 今日の晩ごはんは何にする？
    english: What have you decided on for today's dinner?
  - japanese: このかばんにします。
    english: To decide on this bag.
  - japanese: 明日の朝ごはんは魚にします。
    english: To decide on fish for breakfast tomorrow.
  - japanese: このレストランにします。
    english: To decide on this restaurant.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/にする
false_friends:
  - term: に決まっている
    meaning: Surely, Bound to, Certainly, Be decided
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことになる
    meaning: It will end up being, It is the result of, It has been decided that
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことにする
    meaning: To decide on, Have decided to
    kind: synonym
