grammar_point: という風に
jlpt: N2
meaning: As if to say, As if to suggest that, In such a way that, Things like
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Likeふうに, the grammar point indicating that something is being done 'in the way of (A)',というふうにuses
  the samesuffixof風'wind', 'air', to express that something is being done 'as if to say (A)', 'as if to
  suggest (A)', or 'in such a way that (A)'.As this construction is just a combination of という 'to say',
  and ふうに 'in a manner', the literal meaning of this expression is similar to 'in a way that would say
  that (A)'. This simply highlights the speaker's uncertainty about what the actual situation is, and
  that they are only commenting on appearances.というふうに may be seen directly after verbs, or after nouns
  expressing the way in which something is being done. The (B) portion of these phrases will then indicate
  exactly what is being done 'in a way as if to say (A)'.Caution - Because という often quotes the entire
  statement before it, it will be important to remember this when figuring out exactly whatというふうにis emphasizing.
examples:
  - japanese: 彼女は昼休憩に帰るというふうに聞いています。
    english: I heard something as if to suggest that she is going to go home during lunch break.
  - japanese: 鈴木さんはこの試験に命がかかっているというふうに勉強をした。
    english: Suzuki-san studied as if to suggest that his life depended on this exam.
  - japanese: 私は今まで自分が一番仕事ができる人だというふうに思っていた。
    english: Until recently, I always thought in such a way as to suggest that I was the most capable
      person when it comes to work.
  - japanese: 彼はデザイン、僕はプログラミング、というふうに役割を分けてアプリを開発することにした。
    english: 'We decided to develop the application by dividing the roles in the following way: he would
      do the design and I would do the programming.'
  - japanese: 刑事：「武さんはその事故のことを知っていたという風に私を見ていた。」
    english: 'Detective: He looked at me as if to suggest that he knew some circumstances of that accident.'
  - japanese: 彼女は命がかかってるという風に走っていた。
    english: She was running in a way that suggested her life depended on it.
  - japanese: 秘書が仕事を辞めるという風に聞いていた。
    english: I heard something as if to suggest that the secretary decided to quit.
  - japanese: 父：「母に、遅れるだろうという風に言って。」
    english: 'Father: ''Tell mom in such a way as to suggest that I will be late.'''
  - japanese: 私は掃除、母は晩御飯、父は暖炉に火を付ける、という風にみんなが客の来訪のために、準備した。
    english: 'We all prepared for a guest visit, in the following ways: I cleaned, mom made dinner, and
      dad fired up the fireplace.'
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/という風に
false_friends:
  - term: ふうに
    meaning: ~ way, In a way that suggests, Like ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: ように・ような
    meaning: As・like, Just like
    kind: synonym
  - term: かのようだ
    meaning: As if, Just like
    kind: synonym
