grammar_point: それでも
jlpt: N4
meaning: But still, And yet, Even so, Nevertheless
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: それでもis a combination of thepronounそれ, and theadverbial particleでも. It is often translated simply
  as 'even so', or 'nevertheless'. Literally, it is a bit closer to 'even with that'.それでもis usually used
  between an (A) and a (B) phrase, to show that there is more information (usually surprising) to be considered.This
  grammar point primarily expresses that 'even with' what has been said previously, it is not all there
  is to think about.
examples:
  - japanese: 今日は雨が降るよ、それでも釣りに行くの？
    english: It's going to rain today, even with that, are you still going fishing?
  - japanese: 私は殴られたり、蹴られたりするのが嫌いです。それでも、空手が好きなので辞めれないです。
    english: I don't like getting punched or kicked, even so, I like karate so it is hard to quit.
  - japanese: このコーヒーは甘いですが、それでも砂糖を加えます。
    english: This coffee is sweet but nevertheless, I will add sugar.
  - japanese: タバコは体に悪いと言われている。それでも、止めにくい。
    english: It is said that smoking is bad for you and yet it is tough to quit.
  - japanese: 高いのに、それでも買うつもりですか。
    english: It is expensive and yet you are still planning on buying it?
  - japanese: そのカップルがずっと喧嘩している。それでも、よく旅行に行く。
    english: That couple is always fighting. Nevertheless they often go on trips together.
  - japanese: 先生がインフルエンザにかかった。それでも、学校を休んでいない。
    english: The teacher got the flu. Nevertheless he still came to school.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/それでも
false_friends:
  - term: しかしながら
    meaning: However, Nevertheless, But
    kind: synonym
  - term: それなのに
    meaning: And yet, Despite this
    kind: synonym
  - term: のに (in order to)
    meaning: Despite, Although, Even though
    kind: synonym
  - term: くせに
    meaning: Even though, And yet, Despite
    kind: synonym
  - term: だが・ですが
    meaning: But, Still, However, Nevertheless
    kind: synonym
  - term: ところが
    meaning: Even so, However, Even though, But
    kind: synonym
  - term: それにしても
    meaning: Nevertheless, Even so
    kind: synonym
  - term: だって
    meaning: I heard/was said, Because, But, Even or also, Even if or even though
    kind: synonym
