grammar_point: やら～やら
jlpt: N2
meaning: Whether ~ or not
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: やらis anadverbial particlein Japanese which expresses lack of determination or limitation in regard
  to (A). Due to this, it is very similar to other structures like など, and will often translate as '(A)
  and so on', or '(A) and the like'.やらmay appear following verbs in their dictionary form, nouns, い-Adjectives,
  or な-Adjectives. When repeated as (A)やら(B)やら, both (A) and (B) will often be the same type of word,
  although this is not a limitation when the speaker is expressing various feelings in relation to something.Compared
  toとか,やらputs more emphasis on the scope of things within the category of (A) and (B), thus making it
  sound like (A) and (B) are only a small fraction of many different things within a complex pool of various
  emotions, actions, etc.Caution - When appearing asのやら～のやら, this emphasizes that the speaker does not
  actually know which one out of (A) and (B) is the correct option, and is just presenting both as potential
  possibilities. Due to this, (A) and (B) will often be antonyms or opposites of some sort in these types
  of sentences, but not always.
examples:
  - japanese: 毎日子供の世話をするやら家事をするやらで忙しいです。
    english: I am busy everyday with things such as taking care of my child and doing house chores.
  - japanese: 先週は身体中が痛いやら、体調が悪いやらで大変でした。
    english: Last week I had a tough week because my whole body was aching, wasn't feeling well and so
      on.
  - japanese: あのニュースを聞いてから不安やら怒りやら、色々な感情が溢れ出てきた。
    english: After hearing that news, I was flooded with feelings such as anxiety, anger, and many other
      emotions.
  - japanese: 文法だけではなく漢字やら単語やらも勉強した方がいい。
    english: You should study not only grammar but also things such as kanji and vocabulary.
  - japanese: 彼女は大学に行くのやら行かないのやらはっきりしない。
    english: It is not clear whether she is going to college or not.
  - japanese: あの歌手は上手なのやら下手なのやら、私にはさっぱりわかりません。
    english: I have no idea if that person is a good singer or not.
  - japanese: うれしいやらはずかしいやらで、どんな顔をしていればいいのか、わからなかった。
    english: I didn't know whether I should react with happiness or shyness.
  - japanese: あの映画は、戦闘シーンやら冒険シーン等があるから、君も見てみたらいいよ。
    english: In that movie, there are many scenes of battles, adventures and so on, you should watch it.
  - japanese: A：「GPSを買うか買わないかわからん...でも、GPSがどうしてもほしい。」B：「どうせGPSを買いたいと思ってるなら 、最近の携帯電話はカメラやらGPSやらついているからただのGPSよりスマホを買ったらいい。」
    english: 'A: ''I don''t know whether to buy a GPS or not… But I want one so much.'' B: ''If you want
      to buy a GPS anyway, modern mobile phones have cameras, GPS and so on. So rather than buying an
      ordinary GPS, it''s better to get a smartphone.'''
  - japanese: 子供は母に叱られたあと、泣くやら、鼻が出ているやらで、ひどい騒ぎだった。
    english: When a child was scolded by her mother, she ended up crying, having a runny nose and so on.
      It was quite the scene.
  - japanese: 彼に褒めてもらうとうれしいやら恥ずかしいやら、とにかく気持ちがよかったわ。
    english: When I was praised by him, I don't know whether I felt happiness or shyness. Anyway, it felt
      great.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/やら-やら
false_friends:
  - term: とか～とか
    meaning: Among other things, For example, Such as
    kind: synonym
  - term: たり～たりする
    meaning: Things like ~ and ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: や
    meaning: Things like, And the like
    kind: synonym
  - term: ～ても～なくても
    meaning: Whether ~ or not
    kind: synonym
