grammar_point: とみえる
jlpt: N4
meaning: It seems that, It can be deduced, One can conclude that
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: とみえる(primarily written only in hiragana) is a phrase that combines thecase marking particleと,
  with theる-Verb見える'to appear', or 'to be visible'.This use of theとparticle in Japanese is called aresult,
  and marks when (A) is something that has come to a conclusion, or can be concluded. In this wayとみえるliterally
  means 'from the way it appears, one can conclude that it's (A)'. However, this translates a bit more
  smoothly as 'it can be deduced that (A)', or 'it seems that (A)'.This expression is always used directly
  after the phrase that it is drawing as a conclusion. However, nouns andな-Adjectiveswill requireだbeforeとみえる.While
  this phrase is conjecture (making a guess about something), it usually implies that the speaker has
  done some sort of research, or has some reason that led them to 'draw (A) as a conclusion'. Due to this,
  it appears reasonably confident.Fun Factとalways 'sums up' things. As aquotation, it sums up the phrase
  before it as either something that was said, or thought. As一緒'being together', it sums up groups of
  things that are existing/performing actions mutually. Lastly, as aresult, it sums up causes, and then
  illustrates their effects.
examples:
  - japanese: 家の窓が外から割られていた。泥棒に入られたとみえる。
    english: The windows of the house have been broken from the outside, so I can deduce that a burglar
      came in.
  - japanese: 彼は上着を脱いだ。彼は暑いとみえる。
    english: He took off his jacket, so it seems that he is hot.
  - japanese: 彼はサンドイッチを残した。彼はサンドイッチが嫌いだとみえる。
    english: He left the sandwich, so I can conclude that he doesn't like sandwiches.
  - japanese: トムは今日は会社に来なかった。トムは昨日風邪を引いたから今日は休みだとみえる。
    english: Tom didn't come to work today. He caught a cold yesterday, so I can conclude that he is resting
      today.
  - japanese: 先生が生徒に「廊下で走るな」と言った。
    english: The teacher said 'don't run in the hallway' to the students.
  - japanese: 母とレストランに行った。
    english: I went to the restaurant with my mother.
  - japanese: 昼寝をすると夜に寝れなくなる。
    english: I can't fall asleep at night if I take a nap during the day.
  - japanese: あの親は優しいと見える。
    english: Those parents seem nice.
  - japanese: 家に行ったけど留守と見えた。
    english: I went to their house, but it seemed that they weren't home.
  - japanese: 彼はマラソンを走ったと見えてハアハア言っている。
    english: It seems that he ran a marathon, he is breathing heavily.
  - japanese: テストに落ちたから、勉強してなかったと見える。
    english: Since he failed the test, one can conclude that he did not study.
  - japanese: 水と見えたが、ラムネでした。
    english: It seemed that it was water, but it was lemon soda. (One can conclude that)
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/とみえる
false_friends:
  - term: ようだ
    meaning: It seems that, It appears that, It looks like
    kind: synonym
  - term: らしい ①
    meaning: Seems like, Apparently, I heard
    kind: synonym
  - term: にみえる
    meaning: To look, To seem, To appear
    kind: synonym
