grammar_point: なお②
jlpt: N2
meaning: In addition, Incidentally, Furthermore, Moreover
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: When used at the beginning of a sentence, the adverb尚'furthermore' will often carry the meaning
  of 'in addition', 'furthermore', 'even more', or 'moreover'. This use is regularly seen after the previous
  sentence or clause has expressed some base fact or situation that the second sentence will then add
  to. Especially when the information expressed in the (B) part of the sentence is surprising or shocking
  in some way.This structure will almost always appear without the kanji being used.As尚is a formal grammar
  structure, it will most frequently appear in letters, posters, commercials and other similar material.Fun-fact
  - In all of its uses,なおsimply indicates that taking the previous information of (A) into account, although
  (B) may not be expected, it is in fact true. This can be used either positively or negatively, and just
  highlights (B) as exceeding expectations.
examples:
  - japanese: それでは只今から説明会を開始したいと思います。なお、ご不明な点がある場合はお気軽にお申し付けください。
    english: Well then, I'd like to begin the information session. In addition, if you have any questions,
      please feel free to ask.
  - japanese: ５日の土曜日には11時までに待ち合わせ場所に集合してください。なお、遅れる場合は私のLINEまで連絡をください。
    english: Please be at the meeting place by 11:00 am on Saturday the 5th. Moreover, if you are going
      to be late, please message me on LINE.
  - japanese: 内容の確認が出来ましたら、「次へ」をクリックしてください。なお、「次へ」をクリックした後には内容の変更ができないのでご注意ください。
    english: After confirming the details, please click 'Next'. Furthermore please note that you cannot
      make changes after clicking 'Next'.
  - japanese: ２０２X年７月２４日にマンション周辺の草取りを行います。尚、同時に、住人の子供向きのイベントも行います。
    english: On 07/24/202X, weeding will take place around the apartment buildings. In addition, an event
      for residents' children will also be held at the same time.
  - japanese: 就職面接は八月二日に開催される。尚、希望者は何か質問があれば、ご連絡ください。
    english: The job interview will be held on August 2nd. Furthermore, if you have any questions, feel
      free to contact us.
  - japanese: マングースはすばやい反射神経や分厚い毛皮がある。尚、コブラの毒に対して強い。したがって、蛇を食べることが多い。
    english: The mongoose has fast reflexes and thick fur. Moreover, the mongoose is also resistant to
      snake venom. Therefore, it often eats snakes.
  - japanese: 明日は臨時休業です。尚、定休日は水曜日です。
    english: Tomorrow is a temporary holiday. In addition, Wednesday is our set store holiday.
  - japanese: 作品の提出は今月いっぱいまで。尚、テーマは各自で考えること。
    english: The window for turning in your work is through the end of the month. In addition, you should
      think about your theme individually.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なお2
false_friends:
  - term: なお①
    meaning: Still, Even, Yet
    kind: synonym
  - term: しかも
    meaning: Moreover, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: その上
    meaning: Besides, In addition, Furthermore
    kind: synonym
  - term: それに
    meaning: And, Besides, Moreover, In addition
    kind: synonym
