grammar_point: なくちゃ・なきゃ
jlpt: N5
meaning: Must do, Have to do
meaning_warning: Common abbreviations
details:
  Part of Speech: Expression
  Register: Casual
  品詞: 表現
  単語の種類: 砕けた言い方
  使用域: タメ語
writeup: なくちゃ (short for なくては ), and なきゃ (short for なければ ) are the most common colloquial abbreviations
  used to convey that something 'must', or 'has to' be done.Like てはいけない (must not), なくてはいけない (must), and
  なくてはならない (must), these abbreviation forms can be followed by いけない , ならない , or だめ. However, they are
  usually omitted, without changing the meaning.Structures like this are referred to as spoken/colloquial
  language . These casual variations can come across in a very similar way to words like 'gotta' in English.In
  these examples, a variety of forms have been used naturally. There is no 'most natural' form, and it
  will often depend on the speaker as to which they choose.As with almost all grammatical structures,
  the shortest variations (not including いけない , etc.) are the most casual/used the most often.There are
  several other ways that these common abbreviations can appear based on region, or even an individual
  speaker's preference. An example of this is なけりゃ, which is a (very) casual form of なければ .In this example,
  we can see that some of these less common variations are used specifically by certain genders (in general).
  なけりゃ itself tends to be used by male speakers, and may be considered a bit rougher than なきゃ , or なくちゃ
  , which can be used by anybody.
examples:
  - japanese: 日本語を勉強しなくちゃいけない。
    english: You must study Japanese.
  - japanese: 暑いので水を飲まなきゃいけない。
    english: Since it is hot, you must drink water.
  - japanese: もっと文法を勉強しなくちゃいけない。
    english: I must study more grammar.
  - japanese: 買いに行かなきゃいけない。
    english: I must go shopping.
  - japanese: 明日テストだから、もっと勉強しなくちゃいけない。
    english: Since there is a test tomorrow I must study more.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/なくちゃ-なきゃ
false_friends:
  - term: てはいけない
    meaning: Must not, May not
    kind: antonym
  - term: べきではない
    meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
    kind: antonym
  - term: なくてはいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なくてはならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければいけない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: なければならない
    meaning: Must do, Have to do
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないと
    meaning: Must, Have to
    kind: synonym
