grammar_point: べき
jlpt: N3
meaning: Must, Should , Ought to
meaning_warning: する →すべきorするべき
details:
  Register: Standard
  使用域: 一般
writeup: Theauxiliary verbべき, being theattributive formof べし, is a structure in Japanese that is often
  paired with verbs to express that something 'ought to be done'. It implies some sort of moral obligation,
  or that (A) is the only reasonable course of action. This comes from the kanji可き, which carries the
  meaning of being something 'permissible' (indicating that any other action would not be acceptable).べきwill
  be paired with the plain (non-past) form of a verb, before being followed by eitherだ, or another noun.べきis
  also sometimes translated as 'must do (A)', or 'should do (A)' but it is important to remember that
  it will always have the nuance of being the only 'permissible' choice, and is therefore very strong.CautionIt
  is important to note that the verb appearing withべきcannot be in past tense, and you will need to useだったorでしたafterべき,
  if you would like to say that something 'ought to have been done' in the past.Fun FactIn modern Japanese,
  there are only 18auxiliary verbs, of whichべきis not one. べし (the standard form) is considered to be aclassical
  auxiliary verb. Due to this,べき(and べし) are often referred to asclassical auxiliary verbs.Fun FactThe
  combination ofするandべきis a rare grammatical exception in Japanese, in which two forms are both considered
  equally correct. Due to this, either するべき, or すべき may be used.
examples:
  - japanese: そういう事は本人に言うべきだ。
    english: You ought to say things like that to the person themselves.
  - japanese: お客さんの意見はちゃんと聞くべきだ。
    english: You ought to properly listen to customers' opinions.
  - japanese: ハマサキさんは尊敬するべき人だ。
    english: Hamasaki-san is someone you ought to look up to.
  - japanese: あなたに教えるべき事はこれで全部です。
    english: Of all the things I ought to teach you, this is the last one.
  - japanese: やばいやばい、車が止まりそう！高速に乗る前にガソリンを入れておくべきだった。
    english: This is not good… ahhh not good, the car is about to stop! I should have filled the car up
      with gasoline before I got on the highway.
  - japanese: 大変申し訳ございません。こちらがもっと早く気づくべきでした。
    english: We are very sorry. We should have noticed this earlier.
  - japanese: 結婚する前に相手と将来の話しをするべきだ。
    english: Before marrying, you should talk about the future with your partner.
  - japanese: 家族は何があっても大切にすべきだ。
    english: You should prioritize family no matter what happens.
  - japanese: 痩せたい人は運動をす可きだと思う。
    english: I think people who want to slim down should exercise.
  - japanese: 税金を払う可きです。
    english: You should pay taxes.
  - japanese: 明日の会議は重大な話があるので、出席をする可きだ。
    english: Because we will talk about something important at tomorrow's meeting, everyone should attend.
  - japanese: 君が責任を取る可きだ。リーダーなんだから。
    english: You should take responsibility since you are the leader.
  - japanese: この茶碗を買う可きだ。こんな掘り出し物はあまりないよ。
    english: You should buy this bowl. It is not often that you come across such a bargain.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/べき
false_friends:
  - term: ないほうがいい
    meaning: It'd be better not to, Shouldn't do
    kind: antonym
  - term: べきではない
    meaning: Should not, Must not , Ought not to
    kind: antonym
  - term: たほうがいい
    meaning: It'd be better to, Should do
    kind: synonym
  - term: はずだ
    meaning: Bound to (be), Expected to (be), Should be (able)
    kind: synonym
  - term: ないと
    meaning: Must, Have to
    kind: synonym
  - term: ことだ
    meaning: Should, Ought
    kind: synonym
  - term: ものだ
    meaning: Supposed to, Should, That's the way it is
    kind: synonym
