grammar_point: や
jlpt: N5
meaning: Things like, And the like
meaning_warning: Cannot be used after verbs, unlike とか
details:
  Part of Speech: Sentence Ending Particle
  Register: Standard
  品詞: 助詞
  単語の種類: 終助詞
  使用域: 一般
writeup: や is a particle that has several different roles in Japanese, with the most common being as an
  adverbial particle . や is used similarly to と as 'and', but rather than listing specific things in a
  group, it lists 'things like (A)'.や is always used to group nouns, and simply comes directly after them.To
  compare how と and や are different, imagine that there is a bowl of fruit. In this bowl there are apples,
  oranges, and peaches. If と is used to list the apples and oranges, it would give the listener the impression
  that there are no peaches. This is called an 'exhaustive' list, meaning that all possibilities should
  be listed. However, if や is used, the listener would know that there are other things in the bowl apart
  from the apples and oranges. In this way, や is a better choice when you want to say 'and', but don't
  want to limit the group that you are listing.Cautionや cannot be used after verb phrases. This is done
  with たり , or とか .
examples:
  - japanese: コンビニでお水やおかしを買った。
    english: I bought things like water and snacks at the convenience store.
  - japanese: ひらがなやカタカナや漢字があります。
    english: There are things like Hiragana and Katakana and Kanji.
  - japanese: 京都や東京や大阪に行きました。
    english: I went to places like Kyoto and Tokyo and Osaka.
  - japanese: サッカーやテニスをするのが好き。
    english: I like playing sports like soccer and tennis.
  - japanese: 果物や野菜を食べてください。
    english: Please eat things like fruits and vegetables.
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/や
false_friends:
  - term: と (quotation)
    meaning: And
    kind: synonym
  - term: および
    meaning: And, As well as
    kind: synonym
  - term: たり～たりする
    meaning: Things like ~ and ~
    kind: synonym
  - term: とか～とか
    meaning: Among other things, For example, Such as
    kind: synonym
  - term: やら～やら
    meaning: Whether or, Things like, And … so on
    kind: synonym
