grammar_point: まじき
jlpt: N1
meaning: Unbecoming of, Unworthy of, Not proper for, Should not, Must not, Cannot
meaning_warning: null
details:
  Register: Formal
  使用域: 硬い
writeup: まじきis theattributive formof まじ, aclassical auxiliary verbthat has been replaced almost entirely
  by まい 'must not', 'should not' in modern Japanese. まじ itself has this same meaning of 'must not', and
  will only be seen in a very limited number of formal expressions. Although slightly different in nuance,まじきis
  often translated simply as 'not proper for (A)', or 'unbecoming of (A)' in each case.The most common
  pattern thatまじきwill be seen in is (A)にあるまじき(B), where the case-marking particle に follows a noun, then
  is linked to the う-Verb ある, beforeまじきwill connect to a second noun.Occasionally, に will be replaced
  by として 'as', with the rest of the structure remaining the same.許すまじき'must not be forgiven', or simply
  'unforgivable' is another pattern that may be seen.
examples:
  - japanese: 生徒に手を挙げることは先生にあるまじき行為だ。
    english: Raising your hand to a student is unbecoming of a teacher.
  - japanese: 彼は飲酒運転という警察官にあるまじき行動をし、クビになった。
    english: He was fired for drunk driving, an unbecoming behavior for a police officer.
  - japanese: 先日、斉藤首相は総理としてあるまじき発言をし、SNSで炎上している。
    english: Recently, Prime Minister Saito has been under fire on social media for making comments that
      are unbecoming of a prime minister.
  - japanese: 彼は医師としてあるまじきミスをしてしまい、医師免許を剥奪された。
    english: He made a mistake that was unbecoming of a physician and was stripped of his medical license.
  - japanese: 煽り運転のような許すまじき行為をした場合、免許は取り消しになります。
    english: If you commit unforgivable acts such as tailgating, your license will be revoked.
  - japanese: ララティーナは貴族 にあるまじき態度で、甘やかされた子供のようにふるまいをした。
    english: Lalatina behaved in a manner unbecoming of a noble, like a spoiled child.
  - japanese: 戦場から離脱することは武士 にあるまじき行為と咎められ、罰せられた。
    english: Fleeing from the battlefield was condemned as unbecoming of a warrior and punished.
  - japanese: 言うまでもないが、公金横領など政治家 としてあるまじき行為だ。
    english: It goes without saying, but something like misappropriation of public funds is an act unbecoming
      of a statesman.
  - japanese: リヒャルトは王としてあるまじき汚名を着せられ、やがて廃位された。
    english: Richard was tarred with the stigma unbecoming of the position of the king and was eventually
      dethroned.
  - japanese: 小説：「深く考えず勝手に好きなことをいうのは普通の人にとっては許せるかもしれないが、外交官にとってはゆるすまじき悪行だったのだ。」
    english: 'Novel: ''Saying whatever one wants, without thinking deeply might be allowed for an ordinary
      person, but for a diplomat, it is a misdeed that cannot be forgiven.'''
url: https://bunpro.jp/grammar_points/まじき
false_friends: []
